Bossa Nova Roasters is a brand that holds many branches of large cafes. We were involved in the architectural design of Bossa Nova Samcheok branch as a long-term project. Being able to do interior design at the stage of construction is a huge merit. There’s more to it than just saving the cost.
We expressed the basic structure and form with concrete, and as a contrast to this rawness, we applied colors of white to solid and flat features of the furniture, handrails, partial walls, and ceilings. Materials such as barisol, stainless steel, and wood were used as well, but the portion was kept minimum to set the majority of the mood to concrete and white.
What we believed at the very first stage to be most important was the view given by the characteristics of the site. We thought of how the word chagyeong, which is commonly used in Korean traditional architecture, can be newly reflected in the site and what role it would play here. Our task was to figure out what kind of impression the view of Samcheok would make while drinking coffee and eating desserts, not only for tourists but also for the local residents who have seen the sea view in the same way until now.
Our design was to have the least décor and information, so people can concentrate on the view and moment. Our second thought was to design a place that was simple but the least boring. A place where people first experience and desire to come again, a place of diversity that makes them curious.
All floors from 1F to the rooftop have a similar tone and structure, but each floor’s seats are set in various ways to give a sense of uniqueness to each floor. We wanted to make a place where people can focus on the coffee and dessert, a place to be complete when it’s filled with people.

The project, which occupies a borderline situation between the human scale of the houses of the Historic Center and the defensive walled enclosure of the city, formalizes the change of scale through an incision performed in the original façade in continuity with the expansion of the plant higher.
A folding shutters system extends along the new façade, allowing both the building privacy and solar exposure to be regulated on demand. The façade comes alife in the daily movement of the pieces, making explicit a resurgence of a degraded neighborhood in refoundation.
The use of raw treated wood links the past and the future of the Old Town perfectly, justifying the colonization of the rest of the building, which extends to the basement allowing access to the garage. An intervention solution with a firm gesture and palpable constructive sincerity is chosen: the precise cut for vehicle access, essential for supporting a non-gentrifying REHABITATION of the former ruins, is practiced in full sight in a unified gesture with the addition from the top floor. The solution preserves the traditional rhythm of openings and emphasizes the containment of the land offered by the building itself, while formalizing a new scale for the building that integrates perfectly with the site.
Functionally, the backyard is used as a vertical and horizontal communication space. The main access to the dwellings is from the garden that communicates with the walled enclosure. Under a glazed roof, a wooden walkway is installed giving individual access to both properties and, in the background, to the spiral staircase that connects with the garage two levels below.
Both dwellings take advantage of the views and greater lighting of the enlarged plan to locate the day area. The light enters the interior filtered through the wooden slats, using the exit stairs to the terraces as a light balance.
The cons system perfectly achieves its goal: temperature regulation and privacy. An interior from where you can watch without being seen, enjoying a privileged garden with views in the center of the city.
The houses fit into a dimensional puzzle with one structural condition: the absence of central pillars to provide optimal maneuvering for cars in the garage. For this, a wall-beam was designed separating both dwellings on the second floor and serving as support for the upper slabs. Both stairs are used at their full height to general storage and service spaces in the homes. The bedrooms are located mainly with windows to the main façade.
Oak wood finishes and continuous lime and natural clay coatings are used, contrasting with stone, concrete and galvanized steel exteriors, with the counterpoint of carpentry and wooden shutters.

It is a project to remodel a building that has been used as a sauna for a long time and turn it into a cafe. It aimed to create a better space by utilizing steel-frame structures and existing trees that feel the passage of time. To distinguish visually unnecessary elements, the space was divided by building walls. Cherry blossom trees that are in full bloom in spring and zelkova trees that are autumn leaves are preserved to give a sense of season.
Palgongsan Mountain was used as the design language. It is visible from the target site and is a famous mountain in Korea, providing an exotic experience where you can feel Mother Nature in your daily life. It was intended to provide a space where you can enjoy nature leisurely so that you can penetrate the concept of the cafe's name, 'Slow but better.' A triangular structure with different heights was created and finished with grass to express the image of a chakchupsan Mountain surrounding Palgongsan Mountain.
Line lighting was inserted into the corners of each structure to emphasize the appearance of the night view. During the day, you can wrap around the mountains formed by slopes finished with grass and mirrors, and at night, you can appreciate the mountain range only with lines. It was intended to feel like a piece of work on an unusual scale.
Each triangular structure is organically connected through a long table, and the table is designed to hold water in the shape of a flowing river in a mountain valley. Visitors can focus on the space while appreciating the sky projected on the surface of the calm water contained in the table.
The space was expanded by leaving only the steel frame and roof of the building, which were previously used as a sauna. The triangular structure in the space without sunlight was finished with a mirror, not a lawn. The reason is that the growth of the grass was expected to be poor, so other finishing materials were needed. Instead of grass, a mirror is selected to create an industrial feeling and a harmonious object, and insufficient illuminance is filled with the light reflected by the mirror to provide an exotic view.

Aoshima is a small mysterious island in the Pacific Ocean. In the center of the island, there is a shrine that has a circumference of 1.5 km and is overgrown with subtropical vegetation. This project consists of a café and the client's residence. The site faces a main road, backdropped by the Pacific Ocean, spreading out eastwards complemented by a park called "Kodomo no Kuni" across the road. To the west, a mountain range can be seen across the railroad tracks, making the site a kind of boundary between the mountains and the sea.
I have always thought that "a place with forest trees as pillars and just a roof between the trees" would be most comfortable in a subtropical region such as this. A space where the wind passes through and where one is protected from the strong sunlight and rain. We thought that such a primitive space would be appropriate for this location. Therefore, we proposed a generous space in which the inside and outside blend together, as if a large roof had been gently erected over the site, with 40%, or almost half, of the building area being terraces. The building is placed on the full north-south width of the site, and the northern and southern ends of the building are open semi-outdoor terraces on three sides.
The large gable roof, with a 5" slope, is covered with white galvalume steel corrugated plates, when combined with the cedar shingles on the exterior walls create a primitive appearance and form. The gable roof and the terrace, open on three sides, were designed not only for their openness and primitiveness but also to mitigate the effects of strong typhoon winds.
The terrace and interior have a large atrium that takes advantage of the large roof. Wooden windows that can be opened fully allow the wind from the Pacific Ocean to pass through, spreading the scent of the sea into the space. The western sun shines in from the western mountain peaks. Here, the sun of the west is not a nuisance but a blessing of nature. Every corner of the interior and exterior space is filled with light, and the light dissolves the boundaries ambiguously.
The café was named 'Anandah' before its completion. In Sanskrit, it means "happiness, being free from all limitations. We hope that the time spent in this space, where the boundaries between inside and outside have been eliminated, will trigger a little happiness for visitors.

Mawu Café is a small café and private office located in the heart of Surabaya, Indonesia. All white metal-clad, the structure introduces itself as a striking new addition to the dense and bustling Ketabang neighborhood.
The project sought to introduce the café building as a new structure that compliments and contrasts the adjacent existing building. The use of contemporary design language and unpredictable form exploration give way to bold and playful compositions between the two structures.
Most of the materials and details present are left exposed to serve as both structural and architectural elements of the café, while the composition of overlapping planes and the respond to the silhouette of the existing building act as the architectural expression to both the interior and exterior of the café. These feats provide ample light that hits and falls differently on each plane and side of the rooms, and the gaps between the walls allow both air and visitors to freely flow into and out of the space.
As a small public space, visual connectivity is present in each of the levels through an open plan with openings on the walls. The relationship between the old and new buildings are amplified with the intertwined programs between them. The existing building host the bar, kitchen, and indoor dining area; while the new structure accommodates the office and semi-outdoor dining area.

Located at the corner of a narrow alleyway in Garosu-gil, Sinsa-dong, "reworks120" sets itself apart as a premium eyewear shop, aiming to differentiate itself from traditional eyewear shops.  With its long-established presence, it needed a change in brand image and space. Starting from the essence of the brand, we focused on the question of how consumers could fully experience "reworks120" during their extended stays, concentrating on the unique experiences that only offline road shops can provide.
Choosing eyewear takes time-considering factors like face shape, preferred brands, current eye conditions, and desired needs. We focused on the act of choosing glasses tailored to oneself, fostering communication until the moment customers leave the store. We narrate the space through the concept of "Wearable volume."  Amidst a confined space centered around a single mass, we encompass all activities—selecting glasses, consulting, and relaxing—to heighten the space's concentration. It has two large windows, allowing easy visibility from the outside. We endowed the space with character in this single mass, making "reworks120" recognizable even from a distance. The store, divided into 1st and 2nd floors, maintains the existing 2nd-floor, while we transformed the 1st-floor space into a transitional space and the face of the store. The layout of the space is display walls along the existing walls and a central table. That's so simple. Within this simplicity lies diversity.
The character-filled form arouses curiosity about the store through the external windows. Upon entering, consumers naturally flow in, guided by rounded walls, and explore, eventually being led upstairs. The centrally placed table, refined amidst the rough concrete of the architecture, firmly anchors the space with its 'diagonal line' language.  The two masses meeting the floor at an angle, along with the diagonal pillars, exude stability within an unstable form. Within this framework, various masses, large and small, combine, utilizing blue color points and employing a variety of materials like wood, metal, and acrylic to alleviate monotony.
In contrast, the walls, like cozy curtains within cold concrete walls, encase the space in rounded forms. Overall, warm ivory-colored special paint softens the linear language, accentuating forms through contrast and alleviating the somewhat chilly mood.  Thus, within the alleyways of Garosu-gil, "reworks120" leaves a lasting impression, offering a changed brand image to existing customers and a distinctive presence to newcomers.

In the middle of Lisbon, in Campo de Ourique street, comes up an opportunity to erect a multistore housing building. From the union of two land plots arises a geometry with delicate lines and 3 floors that gets inspiration from traditional Lisbon architecture elements, reinterpreting them for contemporary sensibilities.
This leads do the building being marked by the introduction of two elements that make up the Lisbon aesthetic: tiles and stonework.
These two elements are reinterpreted and presented in a contemporary style, in contrast but in total connection with their surroundings.
In an environment that presents itself stagnated in time, lacking some aesthetic weighting and urgent recovery, the intervention is an indelible mark in the city, managing to establish a dialogue between its modernity and surroundings.
Inside, 3 apartments are organized around the central access nucleus, opening the social areas to the garden at the rear.
The use of large window spans accentuates the interior space, giving its inhabitants living comfort sometimes lacking in buildings located in the narrow streets of Lisbon’s old neighborhoods.
The adoption of sustainable technical and construction solutions create a thermally stable interior without the overreliance on mechanical equipment and help with the overall building’s energy efficiency, completing the whole purpose of the building of uniting traditional architectural language with modern architecture solutions.

The hotel project is located in Ben Tre, a suburban town about 80 kilometers southwest of Ho Chi Minh City. Ben Tre is one of the provinces that compose the Mekong Delta, an area characterized by fertile rice fields and rich coconut forests. The project is a boutique hotel of about 30 rooms, targeting tourists and tour groups visiting the Mekong Delta. The client wanted the hotel to be low-cost and as open and natural as possible. The site is long and narrow, 28m wide and 128m deep, and although it is located along a highway, it offers a glimpse of the beautiful coconut forests of Ben Tre as it goes deeper into the site.
However, the building is very long and narrow due to the need to provide a pathway for emergency vehicles on the site, resulting in a very long circulation. We thought the key point of the design was how to invite guests to the rear of the building without boring them. The hotel design is the "Design of Experience". In this project, we studied how to design a unique hotel for Ben Tre, where people can experience the richness of nature despite the disadvantages of the site.
Sequence to Feel the Rich Nature of The Mekong Delta. Due to the site's extremely long and narrow shape, this building is necessary for a single corridor. This meant that guests would have to walk a long distance from the entrance on the street side to the back of the property. Therefore, we designed the guest rooms not in a straight line but at different angles to the site so that the entire building would have a zigzag shape. The structure is composed of five groups of guestrooms and a corridor along with each other. The position of the corridor and guestrooms layout is switched at the junction. This arrangement also generates a better view of the surrounding. This creates a sequence that is not just a tiresome long corridor but a diverse and circuitous sequence, allowing visitors to enjoy a variety of scenes.
The cranked and recessed part of the building is a garden planted with palm trees and other tropical trees, and as visitors walk along with the Ground Floor, a green garden appears around every corner, along with the entrance, restaurant, and other openly designed common spaces. The architect intends to get a significant view of the landscape and the magnificent coconut grove through corridors and staircases arrangement on the upper floors.
Terracotta Bricks: Handmade Materials Produced in The Region. In the Mekong Delta area, unglazed bricks are made in many factories; these kinds of handmade bricks are fired at a brick factory in the suburbs and used for the exterior facade of this project. Each brick is made by hand, so the colors are not homogeneous, and this creates a warm appearance that cannot be found in large-scale ready-made products. In particular, the exterior walls of the second and third-floor corridors and guest rooms, which compose the hotel's facade, have a pattern of brick walls with gaps between them, which serve as shades and screens that allow impressive light to shine through, changing with time.
This unique material of the Mekong Delta and the contrast with the greenery make the appearance of this hotel characteristic of other hotels. Our proposal is to make this hotel "Slip into the nature of Ben Tre". Visitors to this hotel will be able to experience a variety of scenes through the characteristic circulation of the building. We designed a hotel where the nature of Ben Tre appears with a pleasant outdoor breeze just by walking around, and the beautiful light changes with time.

By its very definition, the architectural threshold is the operational device to delineate the interior condition as it relates to, while standing out, against the exterior condition. The very same architectural device, allows for negotiation between what is owned by the owner and the city that is shared among all.
The COVID-19 pandemics have fundamentally changed how the endo-exo duality is perceived by the general public. We all have become phobic of the unknown germs, a kind of germo-phobia that has resulted in a deep fear of sharing the interior space with others. The mind automatically characterizes the exterior condition as a safer configuration for co-habitation of space, due to air-flow.
As a result, restaurants and cafés with courtyards and terraces have achieved a significant competitive advantage. But can the Pandemic force generate new architectural types that create open-air qualities for those urban parts that are deprived of courtyards or terraces?
The exo-interior is a restaurant that explores such an idea in down-town Tehran within a 85 square-meters space. In this experiment, we conceptualized the space as a dead-end alley, one side of which is the transparent spatial pocket allocated to preparation of food, and the other side is a place for sitting and for the food to be served. The aforementioned design strategy has allowed us to create an interior zone with exterior characters, providing an open-air space for an urban lot that does not have such an affordance by default. Conventional sitting furniture is substituted by abstract boxes that share the same material condition as the finishing of the floor. In this experimentation with the externalization of the internal space, the architectural threshold that interfaces with the city is eliminated, and the street is virtually expanded to the heart of the lot, meeting with its counter-part in a reflective mirror that is installed at the end of this architecturally constructed cul-de-sac.
In this city-like architectural set-up, out-door climate-control technologies are adopted to secure climactic comfort for the occupants.
The project is a humble proposal for a post-COVID city, where architecture and city are intertwined to address new sorts of real and imagined phobias.

Text by Gökhan Karakuş. The restoration of historical architecture in Istanbul has been a fraught issue in the modern period. Istanbul is a city with a 6000-year-old history dating to the Neolithic period with layers upon layers of archaeological remains. Modern architecture and urban planning have often had to contend with these layers causing great disruptions to exist historical and archaeological traces of the city's past. The embedded geological, structural, and cultural past of Istanbul has in most cases been roughly repurposed and often completely destroyed in the modern period. The needs of the modern city, especially roads for automobiles and new dense urban commercial centers meant that prominent buildings from the Byzantine and Ottoman eras were largely erased from the cityscape. Buildings with architectural value such as the Ottoman İncili Köşk near the Topkapi Palace or the Direklerarası Byzantine era arcade in Fatih were razed in the 20th century due to the growth of the city's roads.
Recently over the past thirty years, we have seen similar dynamics in Istanbul's urbanism. Historical buildings with great importance to the city's history and urban character have been eliminated removing these architectural traces of the past. But interestingly the repurposing of many of these buildings has been done in a way these buildings have been preserved by name only in a very superficial manner. Buildings such as the Narmanli Han in Beyoglu or the Karakoy Passenger Terminal in Karakoy were transformed through major changes to their structure and interiors. These landmarks of Istanbul's urbanism were reduced to simplified iconographic representations retaining scant pieces of their architecture and exterior elements. The historical past, its surfaces, interiors, colors, and forms in architecture were erased, permanently removing these layers of material history that gives Istanbul its urban character.
Cultural heritage as urban assemblage was reduced to images losing 3 dimensional spatial, structural and material properties of the urban context. It is in this framework of repurposing the structural, spatial, and material reality of Istanbul's past in the present that we review the new Divan Kurucesme event and conference center in the Kurucesme district on the historical Bosphorus zone of the city by Global Architectural Development. The Bosphorus Strait is one of the most prominent features of the city. The Bosphorus shores, hills, villages, and the concomitant largely residential architecture found there a vibrant and living center of Istanbul's urban life. GAD's strategy of retaining the materials, structures, views, and critically, interior elements have preserved the past life of the Bosphorus into a contemporary architecture that conceptually repurposes the Divan Kurucesme as a dramatic new addition to the geography.
The Cultural Heritage of the Bosphorus: Architecture, History, and Topography - The Bosphorus Strait of Istanbul is the city’s most prominent topographic feature and an important part of Istanbul's identity. The shoreline of the Bosphorus on both the Asian and European sides of the city with its historical urban fabric is a cultural heritage zone that has strict building regulations designed to the limit size and scope of building in the area. GAD’s Divan Kurucesme project in the Kurucesme district on the European side of the Bosphorus for an event space for the Divan Hotel Group, one of Turkey's largest hotel brands, had to factor in the historical importance of the Bosphorus and its restrictive building codes while also providing a contemporary setting for events in line with the tastes of the era.
A Contemporary Architecture for the 21st Century Bosphorus - The architecture strategy by GAD for the Divan Kurucesme subtly introduced a new language for the seaside site drawing references to the existing historic fabric of brick retaining walls, terraces, vaults, and arches belonging to a pair of no longer-extant Bosphorus yali or mansions. Construction of new visible features was limited to the extension of the main event hall terrace with an undulating steel structure and canopy creating a “wavy” roof that covers the main multipurpose event salon and also reflects the waves of the Bosphorus directly in front. This space used primarily for weddings and corporate meetings houses this main volume that largely disappears behind the glass facade as a hidden area on top of the lowest terrace and the substructure of kitchen and parking areas below. The semi-transparent steel and glass canopy with the brick walls, arches, and vaults above accentuates the historical fabric of the Bosphorus creating a radical departure in contemporary architecture in Istanbul.
Weaving Space, Form and History, Retaining the Ottoman Past in the Present - This steel canopy mixed with reinforced concrete structure also facilitates an architectural strategy that creates a dynamic, modern architecture in a spatial and structural sense. This spatial dynamism means that historical continuity in materials and forms for the architecture did not equate necessarily with a restoration model for updating historical architecture. Instead, the exposed remains of the existing terraces and previous building foundations have been unified to create intriguing spatial relationships and view up and down the site and within the historic remains and importantly from the Bosphorus itself. Vivid traces of the remains of the older buildings elements such as a pool, hammam, and laundry facility are visible as patterns in the terrazzo flooring of the entrance floor.
These historical remains have been unearthed and moved to the upper terraces as an exhibition of the past architecture of the disappeared "Divan Kurucesme Yali". Critically, their presence is still within the contemporary architectural design by GAD in the graphic application of these traces and an exhibition of the building’s history with in situ installations merged with the architecture. The traces of the past live in the present both as traces in the main meeting areas and also are available to be viewed in an exhibition of the historical architecture making the Divan Kurucesme a museum of yali architecture. In a most dramatic fashion, the foundations of a hammam building have been preserved in situ hung on a steel frame, and visible in the main banquet hall under a glass floor. GAD has made it a point to preserve and visually showcase these historical remains such as the hammam.
Divan Kuruçeşme, Process and Structure - GAD's design process started in 2008 with construction starting in 2012 was completed in 2022 which itself created many opportunities to reassess the architectural strategy. Critically in this period GAD had completed a number of other buildings in Istanbul with similar issues of repurposing Istanbul's past in buildings such as the Changa Restaurant, 2000, Borusan Music House, 2009 and the nearby Esma Sultan Yalisi, 2002, also an event space in the adjacent district of Ortakoy. The architecture of these buildings applied a similar strategy of adapting the existing structure with structural additions and reinforcements while adding a technical new architecture to facilitate new programs and functional additions. Material elements of the past such as marble and brick, spolia in a sense, were reworked into new surfaces.
Therefore when conceiving the architecture for the Divan Kurucesme it was first and foremost the GAD's task to understand how the existing remains of the back gardens and dramatic vertical retaining walls and terraces of these two yali dating from 1805 could determine the contemporary architectural idiom. It was the proportions of these no longer existing Bosphorus side timber yali that determined the volumetric approach of the architecture. In this sense, the size and planning of the central event space was determined by the historical parties and designed as such, as it was based on the proportions of the existing historical walls. These existing walls and foundations unearthed during construction were emphasized in both interior and exterior design making them a part of the new plan of the building and its new contemporary architecture.
These numerous stone and brick walls are part of the experience from the Bosphorus shore road entrance and guide the visitor through past layers upwards towards the main banquet hall and beyond to the upper terraces. There is material and color continuity as rich brick and ochre surfaces meld with corten steel surfaces and green marbles on exterior walls and pavements. This continuity between landscape and architecture is continued onto roofs of the technical areas that are designed as green terraces to extend the continuity of the green fabric hanging down from the Bosphorus hillside above the retaining walls systems of vaults and arches.
The Divan Kurucesme's architecture is inherently structural in all senses as the new functions have been formed as a new cluster from the Ottoman era arches and vaults while the existing underground areas, cisterns, retaining walls, and terrace gardens formed from the shore elevation towards the upper elevations were kept as they are. The structural veracity of the architecture is a key point here as a reinforced concrete system supporting layers as walls were added underneath the historical structures. To give meaning to this combination of old and new structures visually, these underground and hidden corners were retained as pure structural forms in combinations of painted vaults and barrel vaults. The terrazzo flooring stops before the walls of these vaults allowing them to appear in a pure manner with recessed lighting washing up the sides and accentuating the curvy forms. The architecture is in this way structurally expressive of both the historical and contemporary setting.
At the center of this architectural and structural assembly is the central 1000-person multi-purpose banquet hall for events. This is an advanced piece of structural design engineering in steel and glass that sits above three levels of reinforced concrete structure below. The structural steel system of the main hall consists of a canopy formed by large I-beam rafters set on steel columns. These wavy I-beams composed in two sections hold the main weight of the titanic zinc roof above and extend to the exterior in overhanging eaves towards the front and side facades. The roof and rafters are also held in tension by purlins inserted and connecting the rafters with the addition of diagonal steel rods as cross braces. This technical steel structure is painted in dark earth tones and despite its massive size is subtly weaved into the Bosphorus setting and shore. Its wavy appearance both blends in with the waves of the waterway and echoes the arches of the retaining walls to create a new iconography of architecture for the Bosphorus. In terms of technical needs, two parking floors under sea level and service areas are also inserted below grade. There are also drop-off and pick-up areas brought behind the street-facing wall so as not to interfere with the busy flow of traffic during events at this popular seaside location.
Overall we see in the architecture of the Divan Kurucesme by GAD Architecture one of the most successful attempts to retain the historical past of Istanbul in new contemporary architecture and structural forms. The iconography of the city, its architecture, and natural features have played into GAD's design strategy that has in this period of building in Istanbul one of the few projects that attempts to weave the structures, material, and urban character of the past into the present.

Beit Harishonim house sits on a limestone ridge in the grounds of Moshav Beitan Aharon and overlooks the views of the Hefer valley. After years of being abandoned, the Hefer Valley Regional Council decided to open the house to the public and now after undergoing extensive renovation, the house has opened its doors as a local cultural and art center.
Common Ground Is a collective effort to transform the outdoor area of Beit-harishonim historic house into a cultivated garden. More than a form or an object, Common Ground is a process. Instead of seeing the construction stage as an exclusive client-builder interaction, at the end of which a project is delivered as an object for the visitors to enjoy, the construction process for Common Ground was inclusive and was held in an open-to-all construction site. Using open calls and publications to local communities, nearby residents have joined the build process; together we tightened the ground, cast concrete benches, planted wild plants, and turned the construction process into a collective effort in which gardening is an ongoing project.
The layout of the garden is a condensed pocket-sized English garden with a main path that diverges into smaller paths and hidden seating areas. Each area is positioned to offer a different view of the nearby landscape while making room for a bold custom concrete-cast terrazzo element. While the first two concrete elements are intimate benches, the third is a ghost element referring to a relic from the past; a reflection pool referring to the old 18th-century water pool which led water to the eastern slope, towards the fields.
The new pool makes place for a possible play and interaction between people, animals, and plants and drains the water to the western slope, where wild plants will grow and serve as the entranceway to the house. Along the garden paths, five trees were planted in order to supply shade and fruits for visitors. Almost all plants that were planted in the garden are local wild plants that characterize the surrounding area of Hefer Valley, while a small number of culture plants were used to bring about multi-seasonal blossoms.
Once completed, the garden will not act as a final outcome of a process but rather a place where future events will bring together creators and artists, travelers, volunteers, builders, and gardening enthusiasts that will turn Common Ground into an ongoing project.

This project was designed to occupy a plot located in a condominium near São Paulo, with a gentle slope, and led us to think of a single-story implantation with the residential program not grouped, to condition circulation as an outdoor route, covered yet open, as in the traditional veranda houses of our vernacular architecture. Although the path of the house is made introspectively, like a cloister, circling the internal perimeter of the roof that delimits the permeable area of the courtyard, the intention was to accentuate the relationship inside and outside, as the gaps between volumes act as windows to the external view, where the landscaping should be denser, with the aim, in addition to the act of contemplation, also to preserve the privacy of the residents without the need to create walls at the lot boundary.
The disconnected play of volumes is joined by a single wooden structure roof, a grid mesh with a modulation of 1.25x1.25m, now opaque, now open, now sealed with tempered glass with shading through the wooden slats, acting as a horizontal brise - this situation shelters the living area and external kitchen located on the roof slab of the rooms above the half-level pool area.
Intentionally, the wooden roof, designed as a single horizontal plane, forms a loose crowning of the concrete panel walls and ends up unifying the fragmentation of the ambient program.
For the logistics of the work, we established three phases that alternated between prefabrication and assembly:
- The first phase was the execution of the floor. A concrete slab that acts as a foundation and floor at the same time adjusted at a mid-level in relation to the existing slope to avoid large earth movements. During this period, we simultaneously started the prefabrication of the structure, concrete panels, and frames.
- The second phase, once the curing and sanding of the concrete floor were completed, we began the assembly of the wooden structure, always fixed and joined by galvanized steel components.
After the assembly of the crowning mesh and the consequent execution of the roof, we started the third and final phase.
- The third phase was completed with the installation of concrete panels and frames, as well as the installation of equipment, lighting, and fixed furniture - also designed by apiacás.
This work is the result of experiments we have been doing in our office after some projects with the theme of prefabrication to contribute to other constructive possibilities for the construction site that would minimize material waste, the ostensive use of water, and as a consequence favor time and labor. However, unlike the first works in which we sought this challenge when we had used a metal structure, this is the first time we have mixed a wooden structure with concrete panels, as we still understand it to have excellent performance as a sealing material.
In our office, we think of this project not only as a search for constructive coherence but also for the poetics of design, with the intention of creating a residual image in our memory when we speak about it; a construction where the heaviest material is inserted as a base crowned by a lighter materiality, wood, which in turn seems to float on the inert mass of concrete

The central concern of the Feld 4 housing cooperative was the creation of spaces for collective living with intensive, neighborly interaction in the sense of a family house community. The participatory planning began with the first fundamental decisions on the typology and continued through to the fine-tuning of details and materials. In particular, this participatory process led to the development of an individualization for the extension that was appropriate to the size of the house.
Flexibility of use and adaptability. The building offers a wide range of different apartment typologies from studios up to 5.5-room apartments, so that very different needs can be taken into account. The flexibility of use is at the heart of the objectives. The combination of cooperative apartments for long-term rental and small apartments for low-threshold rental makes it possible to combine different lifestyles and living arrangements. The adaptability of the apartments on each floor ensures dense living and offers WBG F4 the basis for change and development of the cooperative over time in the interests of the respective residents.
The arrangement offers the option of different divisions on the floor. Using a switch room, 1 to 2 apartments of varying sizes can be offered on the standard floor in this form. This room also offers great flexibility in the multi-story apartment version, as it can be used as a bedroom, home office, or guest room. Convertibility was taken into account right from the start of planning. Recesses were created in the concrete walls for possible doors. The partition walls orthogonal to the outer wall are constructed as lightweight walls, so that door installations and conversions represent minor interventions. The adaptations to the building technology have also been planned with foresight.
Structure and materialization. The core of the building is an efficient solid construction, with the façade and roof closed in by a timber construction shell. The exterior appearance of the building's façade cladding is conceptually linked to its former industrial and commercial site use.
The industrial look is contrasted with wooden elements that directly interact with the residents. Windows and reveals are manufactured accordingly and offer a homely and natural appearance, which also conveys the character of the timber construction to the outside world. The contrast between the two materials of industrial panels and the natural material wood creates a composition: this not only achieves a cost-effective and sustainable building but also creates its aesthetic and quality that reflects an architectural connection between the newly emerging quarter and the former industrial usage structure.
In the interior, emphasis was placed on a bright, natural, and friendly atmosphere. The ceilings and walls are plastered and painted white, the floor is a polished anhydride screed. The exterior façade is clad with a white glazed three-layer spruce panel, thus reflecting the timber construction on the inside as well.

Casa TO is located in La Punta Zicatela, a place on the Pacific coast of golden sunsets, where the sea, the sand, and the cliffs form a unique panorama. A discreet oasis of unusual architecture to immerse yourself in a state of absolute reflection.
The project was outlined under the imprint of simplicity and conceptual elegance, where tradition and avant-garde are amalgamated in an unprecedented structure embraced by the tranquility of nature. Its name, Casa TO, arises from the idea of serene contemplation in a defined space, as the reinterpretation of an Oaxacan temple, which generates a radical sensory experience just by entering it.
The structure evokes the lattice pattern of two historic waterworks of timeless beauty, the Basilica Cistern —Yerebatan Sarayi— in Istanbul, dating from the 6th century, and the Hornsey Wood Reservoir in London's Finsbury Park, built in the 19th century.
Privacy against the exposed is evident. Through the interior views, a haven is created bordered by the sky, the forcefulness of the walls, and by the vegetation with shoots of vines and banana and passion fruit trees. In its 600-square-meter surface, Godefroy intertwines aesthetics and functionality, emphasizing the honesty of the textures of raw materials, such as concrete, steel, clay, and wood.
Casa TO's natural environment defined its interior design, which was inspired by the natural hue of a blue Madagascar palm tree—Bismarckia nobilis—located on the original grounds. The color palette is made up of the typical tones of concrete and stainless steel, which are complemented by shades of turquoise, present in the ironworks, the lamps by Natural Urbano Studio, and some decorative details; in addition to yellow, blue, and green accents, which contrast in the glassware and textile elements made by Vivenda, Alfredo Orozco's Experimental Textile Workshop and the TallerOcho rugs.
To convey simplicity and delicacy, furniture was made by expert cabinetmakers from Puebla, Guadalajara, and Oaxaca, which, together with the bamboo pieces designed by Tiago Solís Van Beuren, emphasize the textures and add character to the environments. These unique pieces, which show the rich craftsmanship and creativity of local talents, can be purchased by guests under a fair trade scheme, allowing an exceptional object to be integrated into their daily lives.

ULA café is located in the former Yorkshire Brewery Tower in Collingwood and embodies a blend of old and new. The design showcases the coexistence of history, present and future while preserving the heritage building's significance and brewery culture.
The client's vision is to transform a heritage space into a neighborhood café, leveraging the unique opportunities presented by the original building elements. Our design approach aimed to create new gestures in response to existing features and coexist timelessly. The newly built forms reflect individual windows and doors, bridging connections between the inside and outside.
Attention to detail was crucial to ensure the new elements blended seamlessly with the heritage walls and their significance. The counter color and break line detail continue the heritage walls while differing for various uses. The cement render finish brought in solidity and created a sense of timelessness, while the bluestone-like porcelain tiles with a raised floor on the slab continued the external floor finishes and the heritage tower base. This design also created a buffer space underneath, minimizing the moisture and damp impact on the old building structure.
New track lighting sits at the height of the original feature steel beams, adding flexibility to the atmosphere of the space. The new sliding door engages with the feature graffiti pattern on the wall when it's closing, providing a unique touch to the space.
This project showcases the coexistence between historical elements and new interventions through form, materiality, color, and every detail. The coexistence of similarities and differences invites customers to participate in a dialogue that spans the timeline from history to the present and future. The project has taken a thoughtful approach to both celebrating heritage features and future-proofing conservation and protection. The design demonstrates that heritage sites can be respectfully updated while retaining a sense of humility and elegance without conflict or contrast. The continuity of the new space with the existing creates a deeper connection to history and a sense of the future.
The approach to heritage sites emphasizes continuity, coexistence, and timelessness without creating conflict or contrast. This approach is consistently implemented across all design aspects and scales to ensure seamless integration of the new with the old.

The PC House is located in the Cacupé neighborhood, in the city of Florianópolis, in Santa Catarina. In a noble region in terms of natural aspects, which is privileged with the landscape of the Cacupé and Saco Grande Bays and the mountains that structure the Santa Catarina mountain range on its nearby continent.
The organization of the program was determined by the slightly inclined topography towards the already described landscapes, on a modular base of 8m, which organizes the environments in submodules of 4m and 2m and is externally revealed through its structure and facade elements.
The structural solution in exposed concrete highlights and synthetically defines the volumetry of the house, which is part of a residential complex of houses very close to each other.
In summary, the program is resolved in 3 levels, namely: basement, ground floor, and upper floor, maintaining the modulation and emphasizing the desired horizontality since its conception as the formal architectural solution.
Breaking down the floors, we start with the basement, which can be accessed through the garage or vertical circulations. Here is reserved the service area, as well as technical, with the main infrastructures of the residence, such as the house reservoir.
On the ground floor, there is the social and leisure area, with the living room, kitchen, outdoor dining with barbecue, and pool environments. Also, as a character of the floor, all the garden and green areas of the house are integrated with leisure.
The upper floor is intended for the owners' intimate area, where the bedrooms, bathrooms, dressing rooms, and closets are located, as well as an office for the home office.
Both the ground floor and the upper floor are planned to respect cross ventilation, the best solar orientations for suitable environments, and, of course, by preserving the best views, thus ensuring, in addition to thermal comfort, memorable experiences for the users of PC House.

The Pottering Shed is a 30sqm artists studio located in Poole on the south coast of the UK. The studio is designed to feel like an upside-down boat. A timber structure sits on a concrete shelf, projecting from the landscape over the beach below. The building itself is oriented so that it physically appears to gaze out across Poole Harbour, this orientation and outlook provide a space for the client that recreates the other-worldly peacefulness of being out at sea.
The timber structure is painted with a layering of sculptures scrim and liquid rubber. The black viscous rubber references the historic technique of tarring boats to waterproof the timber hull. Sealed beneath the rubber, the scrim appears like fishing netting and provides a subtle texture across the surface of the building. Painted timber battens and a diamond grid of rubber-painted scallop shells sit on top of the scrim and provide ornamentation that breaks down the single mass of the building.  At the rear, the pitched geometry of the roof manipulates and reduces in size to become diminutive in height.
The client wanted a space to write, draw, print, collage - what they refer to as their ‘analogue activities’ - and which provides a visual and climatic connection to the harbour. These analogue activities, along with challenging site constraints, have also driven the construction and materiality of the design, the collage-like appearance of the building being a result of an ambition to celebrate the building's construction.
First, a concrete base was cast into the sloping cliff face, respecting the SSSI environment of Poole Harbour. Next, CNC-cut plywood cassettes were manufactured off-site to 1mm tolerance, with etched part codes proudly displayed. Assembly on-site was then quick and simple, with cassette panels bolted together in a matter of days.
Internally, recycled timber shuttering planks become the flooring, while the front door, complete with portal window, is reclaimed from a nearby shipyard. Steel windows with a central pivot and horizontal opening are used to generate fully flexible and variable ventilation and are painted in a light blue to reference the vibrant roof tiles of the adjacent historic boatshed and Grade II-listed Boat House.

Garage Dallegret hosts François Dallegret’s visionary imagination between design, fine arts, architecture, and technology. The drawings, the objects, and the ephemera exposed describe an imaginative practice of futurity that brings down the disciplinary limits between the human body and object, subjectivity and urban context, and reality and imagination. This is the first Italian monographic exhibition of the artist and architect, which is set up at Spazio Punch (Giudecca Island, Venice) based upon an idea conceived by Augusto Maurandi with Alessandra Ponte.
The radical character – from radix – of his projects shapes a habitus that rethinks the relationship between space and object through a playful tone outside the logic of exploitation and production. Through his body, Dallegret performs with objects and environments, among pages and sketches of the projects. A metropolitan posture, in bars and clubs, and a technological euphoria, that looks to the future, act as counterpoints to this corporeality.
The highly-technological automobiles, a space city sent on Mars, and the mechanical objects are extensions of the body to reach whatever is beyond itself and beyond the present time. The drawings and works shown in Spazio Punch’s former brewery express this sensory expansion through the machine. A different perceptual space is achieved with a retro-futuristic taste. The exhibition’s setting, conceived by Supervoid (Benjamin Gallegos Gabilondo and Marco Provinciali), fluidly opens the space to enable the heterogeneity of François Dallegret’s experimentations and inventions.
Drawings and multiples made for New York Moma and some dysfunctional objects like La chaise enceinte (1965) inhabit the exhibition, appearing here and there, at random with no hierarchy. The materials, supports and the different scales follow a narrative held by the spirit of the compositions and it runs the whole length of the two sides of the building. Atomix (1968), an educational model of atomic structures – 6000 freely moving precision steel spheres – has a dialogue with the six architectural drawings for A Home Is Not a House (1965).
The former ones were sketched for the homonymous article by Reyner Banham in Art in America where the critic and the artist figure out architecture at the crossroads of proto-ecology and ultratechnology. In the same article, Un-house-Transportable standard-of-living package. The Environment-Bubble project depicts an inflatable bubble that adapts to the environment: Dallagret and Banham naked are sitting around a “totem robot”.
The image serves as a counterpoint to Anatomy of a Dwelling, a standardized American house reduced to a net of pipes and cables between sky and earth. KIIK, a metal object shaped like a pill, intends to ease body distress and mind obsessions. Furthermore, it helps to give up “ bad or good” habits such as quitting smoking or to start drinking. Among the human amplification devices, the IntroConversoMatic designed for Bizarre magazine – also known as NNMA (Network Neutrality Measurement Agent) – is a wearable machine made of an audio system, a monitor, a microphone, a keyboard, and a transmitter/receiver/transducer. It protects the user’s mental integrity and aims to write, to listen, to see and even to have an introspective conversation with oneself.
Well in advance of artificial intelligence, Littératuromatic (1963), on its side, produces literature. Le Drug is a pharmacy-discothèque in Montréal and includes a restaurant in a basement, a fashion boutique, and a gallery, but you also can find anything from matchsticks to posters. Among other leisure places conceived by Dallegret, we find New Penelope, a club built in Montreal (1966-1967); Palais Metro (Montreal 1967), and West Village (Kansas City 1972). Eat & Drink, a fast-food, bar and club designed in 1972 for the World Trade Center of New York, remodels the type of space previously formalized in New Penelope and remains a particularly ambitious project. This genealogy is reintroduced in the exhibition with New New Penelope, a space conceived by Supervoid in order to gather together the audience, take a rest and share a convivial alternative perception of the show.
Standing above the constellation of inventions, Wheely, a new futuristic device, is placed in a higher position since it articulates the exhibition’s architectural trajectories. It is an echo of the automobile Tubola (1968) and it’s been specially created for our Venetian venue. As the first Italian monographic exhibition of the artist and architect, Garage Dallegret means to dialogue with the reflections displayed in The Laboratory of the Future by Lesley Looks, curator of the 18th International Architecture Exhibition of La Biennale di Venezia. At the crossroads between imagination as a planning device and architectural design as a perception of how to be in the world, François Dallegret’s experimentation is the answer that Spazio Punch offers to the need for a narrative concerning visions and practices of futurity. The exhibition will also be a platform to develop projects through open calls for local designers, artists, and architects.

Interior design plan for the Blue Bottle Coffee Fukuoka Tenjin Cafe, which marks its first branch in the Kyushu region. The planned location is a distinct one in the Tenjin area of Fukuoka city, situated within the precincts of the Kego Shrine. While one side of the cafe faces a busy street with heavy traffic, the opposite side opens onto the approach to the shrine, surrounded by moderate greenery and a tranquil atmosphere contrasting with the busy environment of the city. Given this contrasting setting, we naturally envisioned the cafe as a nexus connecting the opposing elements of "city" and "shrine."
In considering the spatial design for such a place of contrast, we prioritized creating a visual shift from the street to the shrine's approach. Placing the kitchen at the center of the interior, we centralized functions such as the drink counter and storage around it. This design establishes a symbolic stage reminiscent of Blue Bottle's identity at the heart of the space, visually connecting the two pathways around the cafe.
Additionally, there was a height difference of approximately 50cm between the shrine approach and the street, another notable feature of the site. To address this, we gradually raised the height towards the shrine, creating a vibrant space on the street side with standing areas while planning for a gradually calming atmosphere on the shrine side with sofa spaces.
For the main materials, we opted for Extruded cement panels commonly used in exterior walls of urban architecture, consciously evoking an urban atmosphere. By staining them in a light beige tone while retaining their texture, we aimed for harmony with the shrine's surroundings. Combining this with walnut wood adds a gradient to the atmosphere within the cafe. Our hope is that this branch will serve as a gentle link between the "city" and the "shrine," providing a sanctuary for people from both aspects of life.

Located in a new urban area, far from the city center with low-density development surrounded by Cam Le River, the construction area has a relatively clean climate. PsA House is a place to live combined with a working office, so the functional layout has many special features. The architect desires to form a house that is simple in detail, minimalist in materials used, and durable over time, adapting to the harsh climate of Central Vietnam.
The layout of the house is formed from 3 main blocks along the length of the land, which are set back from the surrounding area to be completely proactive in terms of ventilation and lighting without depending on the construction density of the surrounding buildings. Between the main blocks are water, greenery, and vertical traffic, which creates open and closed spaces to welcome the wind better, and the greenery acts as a curtain to soften the harsh sunlight shining directly into the house.
The entire space on the 1st floor is used as a working office with a separate walkway that is not dependent on the family's activities on the upper floors.
The house is three floors high, but the front roof system is lowered to avoid a sense of grandeur and to pull the building ratio wider horizontally.
The form of the building is simple geometric blocks, simple, rustic materials, and durable colors over time, such as exposed concrete and polished stone. The spaces combining simple materials, natural light, and greenery create interesting experiences.
Curtains of climbing plants reduce direct sunlight but still ensure natural ventilation while creating a unique identity for the building.
The pond between the two blocks creates a landscape and cools the air on hot days.
The interior materials are also consistent with the exterior and are combined with the main material of natural wood to create a rustic and sustainable feel for the tropical house.

Our client proposes an Asian restaurant in which the protagonist is going to be raw fish, in its different versions. He also wants a relaxed, warm, and unique atmosphere. The place is located in the Sardinero área within the city of Santander with beautiful views of the "La Segunda" beach. One of the most emblematic areas of the city, where the sea and the beach are the main characters.
With this setup, we proposed a design that brings the undersea world to the restaurant. However, we stayed away from the clichés of the sea imaginary. We introduce an abstraction materialized in textures and shapes that remind us of that world. All this translates into a curved geometry that speaks about the sea swell, which is arranged in three different bands.
The lower band houses all the circular benches and the bar; a hard and resistant intermediate band for the walls; and an upper band that houses the ambient lighting of the room and the overbar.
On a material level, instead of the obvious option, we decided on noble, timeless, and warm materials, such as wood and clay, which refer to the Asian-Japanese aesthetic. We refer to the typology of Japanese (Asian) restaurant in the material more than in the formal aesthetic.
From bottom to top, we have natural wood and textiles that refer to the curvilinear world before mentioned; the squama geometry in clay material which refers to the fish skin; and the plastic cylinders, transparent and reflective surfaces that represent the wáter glitters.
Finally, on the floor plan, we introduced a terrazzo that perfectly matches the idea of a sandy floor, completing this marine ideology. At a programmatic level, there is a covered outdoor space that functions as a filter for the restaurant, where the excellent views of the Sardinero are highlighted.

This project honors the beauty of rustic architecture, not from the flashy and glossy but focusing on the use of materials, structures, and functional structures. Taking the industrial style as the main theme, Sawadeesign wants to bring a minimalist experience space with raw concrete material.
The transparent glass facade provides a panoramic view, creating ventilation for the interior space. The harmonious combination of aesthetic and functional factors.
The project exploits the space truss structure, using modern iron and glass materials in the form of modules as the language for the facade. With the function of minimizing the bad effects of sunlight, bringing an eco-friendly factor.

Jonathan Tuckey Design has restored a historic 19th-century farmstead in the Piemonte region of Northern Italy, transforming the sprawling hillside ensemble into a tactile, sunlit home and creative studio for a prominent fashion designer and naturalist.
The brief presented a simple desire; to rediscover the property’s agrarian soul and establish a connection to the beautiful surrounding landscape. Specialists in the reuse of existing buildings, Jonathan Tuckey Design peeled back layers of modern intervention from a 1990s renovation to restore the building’s whimsical character and upgrade its thermal envelope with the addition of new, sustainable systems.
Cascina comprises three original stone volumes; a two-storey farmhouse, a large barn with hay loft, and a connecting enclosed bridge on the first floor. The rural property previously featured small windows, resulting in a very dark interior with little relationship to the outdoors. Jonathan Tuckey Design reorientated the plan by relocating social spaces and the kitchen to the southeast; a vantage that enjoys the best views across the rolling countryside, making for a peaceful morning coffee experience, central to the clients’ brief. By opening new apertures and enlarging existing windows, the clients now enjoy framed vistas from within the home, appreciating softly shifting light throughout the day.
An impactful entrance hall welcomes occupants. By turning the existing staircase to the first floor by 90 degrees and raising the first-floor level, Jonathan Tuckey Design has instilled a generous overhead volume and unlocked organic circulation between the ground and first floors. These elegant and simple adjustments establish a feeling of quiet luxury imbued in the fabric and spatial layout of Cascina. Guests step down into the lowered ground floor which branches north to a new home spa and sauna set under original vaulted brick ceilings, or south to a living space, dining room, and quiet kitchen with al fresco access.
Upstairs, three bedrooms with en suite bathrooms are positioned to the south and east of the plan to capture far-reaching views. The main bedroom enjoys walk-through wardrobes and access to a timber and steel balcony spanning the length of the suite. As in each of the bedrooms, a distinguished palette of timber and stone features in the en-suite bathrooms. Details including milk white tiles, circular mirrors, and brass wall lamps celebrate exterior hues that are carried through the interior, offering a polished accompaniment to the carved solid marble basins of Cascina’s bathrooms.
Careful not to compromise the character of the property with modern balustrading, a traditional brick screen ‘gelosia’ camouflages the bridging space between the former barn and farmhouse. Set behind the brick breeze screening is a passage that wends its way to the upper floor hayloft, a light-filled studio with vistas overlooking treetops and the Alps. Jonathan Tuckey Design has preserved the original trussed roof structure, which features a rich patina following an estimated 200 years of function. To upgrade the thermal performance of Cascina, Jonathan Tuckey Design inserted a new floating roof over the original beams, which remain in situ. The new roof is highly insulated, clad in sheets of local chestnut timber that gently diffuses light throughout the studio, drawn in through new gable-end windows. Beyond Cascina’s newly improved thermal envelope, a ground source heat pump provides a renewable energy source of warmth, harnessed by double glazing and improved insulation throughout.
Indicative of Jonathan Tuckey’s approach to craft and highly contextual material use, spaces throughout the ground floor interior are defined by muted Cocciopesto flooring. An ancient technique developed by the Romans, Cocciopesto is composed of lime and sand interspersed with other crushed fragments - in this case, crushed fragments of the existing terracotta roof tiles - and results in a solid, peppered floor finish that binds old to new. Warm, natural textures of Luserna stone, local chestnut timber, lime plaster, and brick also feature throughout, anchoring Cascina in its place.
Cascina’s entire exterior facade is characterized by lime-washed stone walls, appearing both refined and rustic throughout the seasonal changes. A sense of solidity is manifested from this detail, as if the house were intentionally hewn from its surrounding mountainous landscape, further enhanced on the descent to the home’s main entrance framed by bespoke timber shutters, concrete lintels, and iron latticework.
The landscape plays an equally prominent role in the success of Cascina’s new identity. Jonathan Tuckey Design spent time organizing the layout of the property’s sprawling, sloping gardens. A sculptural display of linear dry local stone retaining walls sets out a series of grassy terraces set with native planning, in line with the client’s ambition to rewild much of the surrounding landscape. Reminiscent of Roman ruins, the walls also camouflage a slender swimming pool and define an outdoor kitchen and patio to the west of the site.
The completed restoration is indicative of Jonathan Tuckey Design’s expertise in retaining original structures whilst implementing sustainable methods of contemporary intervention. Cascina offers a sanctuary of reformed elegance, founded on a deep respect to return it to its former bucolic legacy.

In the past, global perceptions of Chinese cuisine were marred by suspicions of unsafe ingredients and unsanitary environments. During such times, even in Shanghai, where the top 1% of the affluent resided, a retail and dining space known as "Green & Safe" emerged. Now, more than a decade later, what seemed novel or extraordinary may be taken for granted, but I remember the first "Green & Safe" store in Shanghai as a place frequented by the Chinese and people worldwide for benchmarking.
In stark contrast to its fame as a magnet for global investors and a benchmarking hotspot, the first sight to greet visitors at the small Shanghai store was unattractive fruits and vegetables. These were crops grown in healthy environments and certified from various regions. Along with livestock fed on these crops, dairy products derived from these animals, and beverages, wines, and beers made from the wholesome crops, even gardening products for growing the crops were on sale. This place, where one could order only after filling out a questionnaire to check their physical condition, was not merely selling a drink or a meal but the necessary changes and lifestyle for healthy living.
Previously, growing crops was considered a sacred realm, not merely subject to human control. Agriculture was believed to yield good crops through fertile soil, climate influence, and earnest care. However, agriculture has also undergone changes, with technological innovations and smart farms representing the future of agriculture around urban areas. Good crops now originate from more straightforward principles, thanks to technological innovation. Smart farms optimize temperature and humidity in place of climate, use LED lighting for light, and deliver nutrients needed for plant growth through water. The cleanroom environment, isolated from the outside, prevents pest damage, ensuring that every last leaf of the crop can be consumed.
‘With the advent of smart farms, one wonders if the countryside is becoming smarter, too?’
Smart farms, innovating by transforming the horizontal area needed for farming into a vertical one, are also making various efforts to address issues caused by environmental and climate change. In the future, advancements in AI and energy technology will enable the cultivation of a much wider variety of crops and issues like waste from agricultural plastics will gradually be resolved. How will we remember the countryside in the future? The future of farming, which is more innovative and sustainable, will be remembered for the endless efforts of farmers to create a healthy crop ecosystem. These efforts are also applied within our spaces. We have developed finishing materials using discarded newspapers and plastics used in crop cultivation, symbolically representing the efforts of farmers for future generations within our spaces.
Imagine fresh crops grown through smart farming arriving directly at your dining table. Bachelor's Vegetable Store, a fruit and vegetable distribution specialist, has transitioned to supplying new types of vegetables through smart farming as part of its commitment to sustainable agriculture and distribution. Their approach extends beyond merely supplying vegetables; it's about ensuring these healthy crops reach our tables, an essential element of their design ethos.
The café space, spanning the first and second floors, is adjacent to the smart farm. We wanted this space to feel like an extension of the smart farm rather than a separate entity. We contemplated not only the form but also the finishes that reflect the smart farm's systematic, regular, and hygienic nature, allowing these traits to blend into every corner of the space seamlessly. Upon entering the first floor, the ceiling structure encountered evokes a part of the smart farm. Water, a crucial medium for crop growth, was our inspiration. We designed a ceiling structure symbolizing water, light, and the environment, ensuring its flow extends to the water dispenser where customers interact, thereby conveying its significance.
The square pattern starts from the ceiling, reaches the water dispenser, and continues along the wall surfaces, forming small windows focused on the crops. These patterns, reminiscent of the crop's growing modules, are echoed in the central table and furniture details throughout the space, creating a cohesive ambiance. The lighting, too, was designed with a focus on function over unnecessary embellishments, arranged in a simple form along the ceiling structure. In the smart farm, where one can see crops growing in real-time, researchers in lab coats deliver the freshly grown produce directly to the café. The kitchen, designed as an open space, allows customers to observe the produce's washing, cutting, dressing, and topping.
The window seats, oriented towards the large windows, offer views of the external landscape. We extended the outdoor flooring material inside, creating a sense of connection with the natural surroundings. Ascending to the second floor, one finds a space connected to the first floor via a lift designated for packaging the freshly harvested crops and salads. By showing customers the packaging and distribution process, the space aims to instill a perception of systematic and safe procedures. We maintained the same ceiling structure as the first floor for a sense of continuity and arranged the furniture to allow dining while overlooking the outdoors. Additionally, a system for directly delivering healthy crops to dining tables is integrated into the space, forming pickup and product display zones. This place, where one can experience freshly harvested crops from the smart farm reaching their dining table, aspires to be a space selling fresh and healthy experiences.

Resort At Panchalimedu - The Resort is located in the hill station of Panchalimedu in Idukki district, with close proximity to the historically significant pond in which Panchali is believed to have bathed. The design had to overcome the challenges of steep terrains, budget constraints, and local climactic characteristics of strong winds & rainfalls. The design response was one of sensory richness emanating from tranquil spaces and an original architectural style of chic ethnic heritage but with all the trappings of modern living. The use of raised circulation paths to overcome the undulating terrain below makes the design very friendly to guests.
The design layout comprises 19 villas, the main block with a central lobby, conference room, restaurant, shop, swimming pool, spa, and other amenities including ample parking – all tightly configured in the limited 1.51 acres of steep hilly site. The buildings respond to the contoured topography of the site (being lowest at the entrance near the road and highest towards the rear) by being placed on stilts to veritably float over the site. It is remarkable that all this was achieved without cutting down even a single native tree from the site. The landscaping plan adopted weaved in luxuriant foliage and shrubbery and generously interspersed in green pockets, giving the resort a deep connection with the outdoors validating its context as a green resort.
Main Block - The main block is the first port of call for guests, and has a very inviting and generously appointed lobby, as well as a Business Centre, a restaurant, kitchen, retail outlet, and a swimming pool with a kid's pool. The spacious lobby is both inviting and intriguing with its high roof and internally accentuated with various purposefully located cut-outs framing enchanting views of rolling hills outside. The building sits above the parking yard with its own nature strip in front, facing the rising sun. The building is done in exposed brick and has large overhangs for deep shade and protection from driving rain. The building’s gabled roofs facilitate natural ventilation as well as introduce visual interest to the form of the sloping roof.
The Business Centre adjacent to the lobby offers facilities for remote work and is also designed and positioned to have great views of the distant hills. The functional circulation routes easily allow delivery of room services from the kitchen/restaurant to all units. The Restaurant has a seating capacity of 50 guests, with all seats having views to external vistas reflected over the pool beside, and an internal courtyard alive with foliage. The side facing the nearby hills is not glazed (but has a manually deployable feature in the event of driving rain). This arrangement purposefully blurs the division between the inside and outside and allows easy ingress of breeze along with the promises of the outdoors, as well as access to the nearby positioned barbeque and campfire pit. The fully equipped and spacious kitchen is set at a higher level in response to the slope of the land. The undercroft of the main block is functionally utilized for back-of-house facilities for the resort such as laundry, linen storage, and driver amenities. The main block has also living quarters for staff at the rear, as well as a convertible office room for the proprietors.
Villas - All 19 villas come with an external shaded verandah, dining room, living room kitchen, and an enclosed garden. Five of the villas have 2 bedrooms each while, the remaining 14 are single-bedroom villas. The bedrooms are ensuite, with a walk-in dress room. All rooms are designed to catch views of the misty hills in the distance, or of the onsite pool nearby. As noted earlier, raised walkways to float over the steep contours below and provide safe and easy access to all the villas. The provision of utilities across the site and to all the residential units was a technical challenge given the undulating lie of the land, but this was innovatively addressed through meticulous detailing and the use of bespoke engineering solutions.
Swimming Pool And Spa - The Swimming Pool is an overflow infinity pool and with vantage views to the surrounding hills, and has ample deck space all around as well as an adjacent wading pool for kids. The Spa is located at the front of the plot, with attendant ayurvedic treatment rooms deliberately positioned on stilts above the yard below, assuring privacy without also obstructing the prized views of the vistas beyond.

Two years of covid have pushed everyone to a certain level of distrust. We started the project of the Sawerdo with the fear that putting people around a table was an endangered gathering format. The risk was taken, a sort of hopeful leap of faith by the founders, believing that the jumping microbes of a too-close neighbor would never be an obstacle to being together.
Instead, a bet was taken on the opposite scenario: the one by which proximity is a simple vector towards spontaneous conversation and exchange well beyond the fear of a viral other.
Our project spatialized and constructed this “moment” of our lives and put everything and everyone around a staged and very material table.
Beyond the obvious references to traditional bread-making materials like marble and steel speed racks, the idea became quite simple: a hosting table allowing a variety of configurations. Somehow, the set is a half domestic, half professional one, between sharing “table d’hôtes” and dining in the interior of a bakery.
Jeff Wall's image Dressing Poultry (2007) was shot on a farm near Vancouver, celebrating a moment of fun while working – preparing what will become food. With an aesthetic at the antipodes of Sawerdo's project, this image has yet the same intention: to bring the act of cooking, nourishing, and sharing into a unifying whole of the living.
Like Jeff Wall's lightboxes, the Sawerdo had the chance to be in a very beautiful space that the project reveals as much as possible: an inhabited lightbox where scenes of life occur and will keep on happening as long as we understand that we are all biological beings or “viral others”.

We can affirm that this building can be understood through the dimension of use: a tourist information post. But this statement should not be understood from programmatic functionalism, but rather from what a facility represents that drives the visit to different attractions. It is usually associated that these types of buildings must have an iconic shape, and many times allegorically associated with the destinations they promote. We were facing this problem in a rather chaotic part of the city. Characterized by the high speed on National Route 12 and its collectors, transition between urbanity and rurality, diverse infrastructural and institutional architectures such as the bus station and a police station. In addition, being a State building (financing is done by the National Government and execution by the Provincial Government), it was going to have a limited budget and also little investment in its long-term maintenance.
Faced with these variables, and after successive budget cuts during the design process, the building is resolved based on the following decisions: A square, void, intermediate between the fast circulation routes and the building. This will be built at a later stage and will serve to host cultural events, craft fairs, and open-air tourism promotions. The building is a parallelepiped of 6x12x6 meters, placed at the highest level of the lot. As if it were a massif, it is "empty" in one part to house the public service program. And it remains “full” in the areas intended for services, housing infrastructure, and where it is necessary to generate passive strategies for attention to the rigorous local climate. Characterized by high temperature, high humidity, and strong solar incidence. The stereotomic image of the building is reinforced by its stone skin. This, made of red grit, is a local stone with good thermal behavior and noble aging. In its heavy image and the chromatism of its surface, the building begins to establish relationships of belonging with the pre-existing architectures: the vestiges, heritage of humanity, of the Jesuit-Guarani complex; and closer in time, to the popular architecture that finds in the sandstone a favorite coating.
In this way, iconicity is built through the emptiness of the square, the abstract form, and the sandstone skin. Thus, the proposed architecture is a cluster of simple, quasi-simplistic decisions that seek to build a synthetic response that addresses all the complexities of the project described.

Sitting as a solitary diamond in the undulating fields of Ästad Vingård – one of Sweden’s largest vineyards – Restaurang ÄNG is a culinary experience out of the ordinary that engages all senses. The partly underground Michelin-starred restaurant with a spectacular glasshouse entrance in the middle of the lush field is designed by Norm Architects and furnished by Japanese Karimoku to create a stimulating interplay between architecture, food, wine, interiors, and art that makes for a balanced and harmonious 19-course haute-cuisine experience.
The experience of ÄNG starts even before you step inside – walking through the lush meadow with crops and grasses on both sides of the winding pathway leading guests to the sparkling glasshouse that stands as a modern and refined interpretation of a greenhouse turned inside out. Having the iron structure on the inside, it stands like a prism in the middle of the field; Utterly sharp and smooth, mirroring the surroundings.
Taking its name from the surrounding meadows, the new ÄNG explores both the surface and the deeper parts of the Swedish landscape as the souterrain view of the wetlands adds even more peace of mind.
Closing in on the glass house, a small herb garden out front discloses the local touch and approach to the culinary experience you’re about to have. A protective hedge reveals a limited glimpse of a nearby lake but allows you to maintain focus right where you are.
Serving as a subtle indicator of the strong connection between ÄNG and the surrounding nature, the outside stone flooring continues inside as you pull the heavy glass door open and continue the journey. The impression of the glass house is light and lush as you walk past an open kitchen with a grounding stone counter and bespoke artworks with an organic form of language. As you sit down in refined lounge furniture by Japanese Karimoku in solid wood with visible woodworking details and soft upholstery, while still having a feeling of sitting in the middle of the field with nothing but clear skies above your head, it is evident how the space dwells on the interplay between nature and culture, capturing the spirit of the unique locus
Seven wooden and stone sculptures with an organic design language are made bespoke by the talented Norwegian artist, Anders Pfeffer Gjengedal (Løvfall). With inspiration from years in the world of ballet, he works with the sense of form in collaboration with architects and designers alike, turning natural wood and stone into sensual and expressive sculptures.
As the staff starts to decant local champagne and present astounding appetizers made from homegrown produce that’ll make you sit back and simply enjoy the 4,5-hour long pause from the hustle and bustle of every day, the sun is slowly descending beyond the meadow, serving as a calm and ever-changing backdrop to the evening.
Connected by a shared belief in timeless aesthetics and an ambition to create products that meet everyday needs, we set out to create a curated range of products in collaboration with the design studio Bonni Bonne. Based in Norrland, Sweden, the studio was born from a joint passion and fascination for nature, gastronomy, and the presence of everyday aesthetics. With an ambition to highlight some of Norrland’s traditions, they present genuine craft and ancient knowledge in new contexts and in a more modern take as they work with the meeting between poetic and timeless aesthetics to create products out of everyday needs.
In order to emphasize ÄNG’s strong connection with nature, parts of the curated collection are made from green wood – an ancient woodworking method that creates natural silhouettes and raw textures perfect for the atmosphere in the restaurant.
When it comes to haute cuisine, it’s all about this interplay between the many elements that make up the experience – from architecture, design, and lighting, to taste, smell, and sounds. When all these elements are balanced and well-adjusted that is when everything comes together to create a unique and esteemed experience out of the ordinary.

The 600-year-old ancient village of Langtou is located in the northern suburbs of Guangzhou. As a well-known “accomplished scholars village,” Langtou has many well-preserved old architectural spaces, such as academies of classical learning, ancestral temples, vernacular houses, streets, and alleys,. The word "lang" originally meant the marshland next to the river, and its meaning also extends to lakes or ponds. The ancient village is surrounded by numerous ponds: lotus ponds, fish ponds, and Feng Shui ponds; when the breeze stirs the lotus leaves, it makes a beautiful scenery of Lingnan (south of the Five Mountains) water landscape. ChunYangTai, which we designed, is situated in a lotus pond outside the ancient village.
Responding to the historical scale - Establishing connections with the scale and layout of the ancient village, the complex program – exhibition spaces, library, theater, research studios, and café – are dispersed into ten individual small building units. Building units are connected by “towers” with curvilinear brick walls and form alleys and courtyards of intimate sizes in between.
Merging into the landscape - We have placed nearly 30 groups of planted water ponds on the roofs of buildings; the lush aquatic plants, primarily waterlilies, not only form a natural landscape but also reduce the energy consumption of the buildings. The roof ponds, connected by elevated walkways and the ponds, both designed and natural, in the sunken courtyards and the surrounding areas, create a "multi-level lotus pond system" that blends into the environment.
Inheriting the local culture - Local red tiles and traditional grey bricks are chosen as the primary building materials, together with exposed concrete, to create a local cultural facility rooted in Langtou tradition. As a contemporary interpretation of traditional Lingnan architectural elements such as "Dragon boat ridge" and "Moonbeam", the crescent windows bring subtle and soft lighting into the interior spaces and serve as an arc-shaped frame for observing the surroundings. It has become the iconic architectural symbol of ChunYangTai.

The aim of the project was to enhance the architectural, historical and landscape heritage existing in this small mountain region in the Portuguese countryside, named Cova da Beira, in the town of Belmonte. This was achieved through the restoration and preservation of the buildings and existing landscape, and by respecting their architectural character and natural values, allowing a renewal of the touristic purpose of the complex.
Thus, we created a project full of coexistence, integration and overlapping of memories, and where the past and legacy is not overlooked, but still converging towards the realization of a new equipment for Tourism in Rural Areas – Casa de Campo.
The proposal aimed at recovering the former “Casa da Chandeirinha”, as well as changing some old buildings in its vicinity, by transforming them into support equipment and added value to this touristic complex. The intervention aimed at rehabilitating the complex, providing it with conditions of habitability, comfort and well-being, and guaranteeing an internal functional organization, with independent spaces for private use, and at the same time connecting (both physically and/or visually) the ever-present environment as a background of this renewed tourist resort.
In the main building, the original configuration was kept (implantation, height), as well as the main walls in granite masonry and the elements that characterize it, with only the reconfiguration of the old and "fragmented" roof, the removal of plasters, joints and cement walls, and other compositions that presented some level of degradation. The vegetation was also maintained, both in the immediate surroundings and in the building, so that this entire pre-existing body preserved the original vernacular, only enhanced with subtle interventions of a more contemporary nature, such as the introduction of elements in exposed concrete, thermo-treated wood and natural zinc plating.
In this rural context, full of history and endless landscapes, a space of tribute to nature and well-being was born.

This is an interior renovation project of a dwelling unit in a 40-year-old apartment building in Tokyo. The unit with around 70 square meters is renovated as a residence for a couple and a child, plus an office space for the husband.
The unit is a corner room on the top floor of the five-story building with windows on three sides. After removing all the original interior work into the skeleton form, we put the office and sanitary on the north side of the RC bearing wall, and the living space on the south side of it.
The living space has a bedroom in its center, and it’s surrounded by a kitchen, living/dining room, closet, storage, and desk space. This layout allows the residents to move around and creates a sense of distance between the residents. At the same time, the layout without dead ends is convenient for distributing the light and wind coming through the windows on three sides into the entire unit. There is a loft above the bedroom, and it is used as a playground for the kid and storage.
In the materialization of the planning above, we’ve implemented boundary surfaces between spaces that can be actively adjusted by the residents. The aim is to create a comfortable coexistence of different activities, moods, also various light, heat, and sound environments, which vary according to the individual's preferences. We’ve focused on the development of these adjustable boundary surfaces, or “fittings.”
With these new fittings which allow light and wind to pass through softly and control the line of sight and presence of residents delicately, we’ve tried to realize an environment expanding and contracting beyond the planning layout, and the rich gradation of life that results from it.

Casa Jungla is a single-family residence located in Santa Teresa, Costa Rica. This region is characterized by its natural richness, proximity to a variety of beaches, and a tropical rainforest environment. The property is situated in an area with limited urban development, featuring rugged terrain and a forested area at the rear.
Considering the aforementioned conditions, the project focuses on creating a continuous dialogue between the natural surroundings, the built space, and the interaction of the inhabitants with both. For the residents, the experience consists of a series of thresholds with variable visibility and enclosure, connecting interior and exterior spaces. Crossing these thresholds dramatically alters the spatial conditions, exposing or sheltering the inhabitants from the natural environment. The common areas are also positioned at the same level as the tree canopies, giving a sensation of floating above the terrain.
The layout of the house is organized around a perimeter wall covered in local stone, providing privacy and security to the interior areas while keeping the rear facade open to the landscape. Entry is through a front garden leading to the circulation areas of the project. Inside, all the social areas are on the ground floor, where the kitchen, living room, and dining room integrate into a single space with glass doors at both ends.
This arrangement makes the most of cross ventilation for passive climate control and directs the common areas toward a wide opening framing views of the nearby trees and leading to the elevated pool and terrace. The secondary bedrooms, also located on this level, share a single bathroom and are oriented so that both enjoy full openings to the outdoor spaces of the house.
Due to the rugged terrain, the lower level of the house makes use of retaining walls. Here, a living room with its own bathroom and direct access to the garden is positioned, along with the laundry room and electromechanical equipment room. A series of steps in the garden leads to an independent studio at the lowest part of the land.
During the construction process, the project changed ownership, and the new owner requested the addition of an extra level to the house. To achieve this, concrete beams were incorporated into the social area to support the new structure, and an external staircase with louvered enclosures was designed to access the upper level. This level houses the main bedroom and bathroom, a perimeter balcony, and a continuous planter on the entire rear facade. As in the other levels, openings are incorporated at both ends to provide natural light, cross ventilation, and views of the natural environment surrounding the project.

Wandering through a sculpture garden, a path leads us to a floating platform where a translucent object stands gracefully. Like a sculpture, this abstract box floats among the trees, reflecting its lights and shadows. Patina Garden Studio invites children to discover and embrace a world of play.
Approaching the house, you are invited to enter through a corner sliding door. The rhythmic patterns of the wood structure and the translucent walls create a play of shadows and light shimmering through the space.
Once inside, the air carries the soothing scent of Japanese cedar. The wooden structure, carefully crafted, frames views of the garden, blurring the boundaries between indoors and outdoors.
The interior unfolds an upper floor for exploration: a ladder leads us to the gable roof where you can reach a special, more enclosed room with connections to the outside through a big slide on one side and an exterior climbing wall on the other.
In this project, our aim was to explore the harmonious connection between architectural design and wood craftsmanship in a special surrounding environment, creating a seamless blend that defines the essence of this sensory-stimulating space and inspires children's imagination.

Calgary's Central Memorial Park was developed during Calgary’s first major boom at the turn of the 20th century to show the confidence and optimism of a young city, which is a spirit that remains to this day. In the century since its inception, following significant changes to the area, the elaborate gardens and geometric pathways of the formal Victorian gardens have lost their luster. The ambition of the Sidewalk Citizen Solarium is to reinvigorate Central Memorial Park with a year-round dining and event space that connects the park to the city and the city to the park.
The building’s new entry hall serves as a front door and a direct link to the city. As a nod to the character of the park, the entry hall is clad with a variable aperture pattern inspired by façade details on the park's historic Memorial Park Library. Abundant natural light and controlled climate foster the growth of several species of plants, including a fig tree, a lemon bush, and many other subtropical plants. From the first light in the morning, the translucent cladding floods the space with a soft, diffuse natural light, washing over the restaurant’s patrons and plants throughout the day.
The structure was designed and modeled parametrically in order to ensure a high level of iterability, maintain precise tolerances and accuracy, and seamlessly transition from design to fabrication to onsite assembly. The entire lattice structure required 160 sheets of plywood (or 4,700 square feet of material) milled over 150 CNC hours (see cut sheets above), as well as 450 linear feet of dowel to connect the pieces.
The size constraints of the plywood panels and CNC cutting bed required that the laminated panels be composed of multiple pieces, which are staggered to avoid intersecting seams and structural weak points and then laminated with wood dowels. The wood lattice structure that forms the roof and walls of the solarium is made entirely of 3/4” fir plywood CNC prototyped and milled in-house by Studio North. The plywood components are laminated with wood dowels to form continuous structural members that function as both columns and rafters across the structure.
The rigid frames simply slot together using cross-halved joints which allow for ease of onsite assembly. Over large spans such as the garage door and entryway, exposed laminated veneer lumber supplements the lattice canopy structure. As shadows are cast on the building’s roof, the cathedral-like space is animated by the dappled light, constantly shifting throughout the day. Sitting back and looking up, the sinuous structural lines of the roof and walls invite the eye to wander from one side of the space to the other. At night, light emanates from the wooden lattice structure, illuminating the park around it.

Havenkade, located by the harbor along the Waal River, is the most recent residential addition to Nijmegen’s urban silhouette. The development is part of the larger urban transformation plan for the Waalfront area, the city’s former industrial district. The project is a joint initiative, notable for its diversity in housing types. It comprises 324 apartments, including 164 social rent units for housing corporations Talis and Portaal, designed by architectuurcentrale Thijs Asselbergs and Van Ommeren Associates (VOA). The 38 medium-priced rental apartments and 122 private-sector apartments were designed by JURY!
Within a recognizable masonry ensemble, a versatile mix of housing has been created. Characteristics are the two-story high entrances that form the connection between the new city street and the courtyard within the building block. The exterior has a robust masonry character, while the courtyard is detailed in a more neutral way that serves as a basis for the vegetation to flourish.
Building housing diversity. The urban masterplan for the Havenkade plot was conceived by Asselbergs and VOA. By deviating from the original plan for two separate buildings and instead proposing an integrated development for a cohesive building block, maximum benefit can be derived from shared resources such as mobility infrastructure, landscaping, and a robust architectural ensemble.
There is an urgent need for more affordable housing in general but in particular compact apartments for starters and single occupants. The collaborating architectural firms, aTa and VOA, see tailor-made standardized construction and modular construction as the solution for the future. Series-produced housing projects consisting of diversity in housing typologies create architectural enrichment with lasting value. In the Havenkade project, social housing is designed with the same attention and thoughtfulness as all other housing types. The variety of housing typologies on the Havenkade – living by the water, the street, or the courtyard and the range of sizes of apartments and maisonettes – offer diverse housing options for the Nijmegen community.
Green living by the harbor. The location of Havenkade lies at the intersection between the views of the harbor, the Waal River, and the main cycling route across the dyke to the city center. The courtyard of the ensemble opens up to the harbor, creating a connection with the public waterfront and the landscape. The landscape, designed by Felixx Landscape Architects and Planners, combines the need for mobility infrastructure, green surroundings, and a vegetative environment. Future-proof interventions along the embankment have been made with flood defense in mind, integrating parking with trees in the open ground and infiltration of rainwater in the courtyard. These interventions contribute to a climate-adaptive and healthy living environment.

The temple aims to be an inspiring space that blends Mayan tradition and yoga, representing the four elements and the sunrise. It achieves structural efficiency through the design of hyperbolic paraboloids and the use of local materials, respecting the identity and sustainability of the region.
The design is rich in symbolism, honoring the earth, water, air, and fire, essential elements for harmony according to the ancient Mayans. The Eastern Gate welcomes the first rays of the sun, promoting introspection. Inspired by efficient marine structures, the design adapts to the project, prioritizing sustainability.
The choice of local materials supports ancestral techniques and community development. The structural efficiency and the use of local resources highlight the sustainability of the project, exemplifying how architecture can honor the past while looking toward a conscious future. It offers an enriching experience that combines heritage, art, culture, and respect for the natural environment.

The project of conversion of an original factory hall into offices for Monolot Studio was developed in close collaboration with the client, both in design and on inspection days, during which countless new solutions were created. The investors, Honza and David, the founders of Monolot, are good friends of mine, and we have complemented each other in our collaboration, pushing the design and implementation always a little further towards a better solution.
Monolot Studio is located in a former electrical cable factory in Prague's Holešovice district. The elevated production hall has been partly overstoryed, and the layout has been divided into several rooms by a new extension. The built-in volume is made of unplastered porotherm blocks with white paint. The whole reconstruction is in a minimalist industrial spirit, with all structures painted white. The top layer has been removed from the original walls, and the exposed bricks have also been whitewashed. Where remnants of penetrations were found or new penetrations were made, a precise and neat jamb was created as a contrast to the rawness of the rest of the design.
The newly created spaces are connected to the original part of the offices, which was renovated in 2020, and are connected by two passages in the dividing wall. On the side facing the courtyard, with the entrance to the whole building on Dělnická Street, a separate entrance from the exterior and a separate "command" office has been created. The latter has a new glass entrance with a glass door in a wooden frame, sized to relate to the rest of the façade and illuminate the space. A low built-in separating the two main overhanging rooms conceals the restrooms, storage, and a pass-through kitchen.
The office areas are roofed by the background and have an inset floor of metal construction with soundproofing. Towards the office, the loft is finished with a glass partition in a profiled split timber frame. On the dining side of the layout, the loft has a railing of white-painted ductile iron in a banded timber frame. A very narrow wooden staircase leads to the first floor, hidden behind the kitchen storage area. In the perimeter wall near the dining area, remnants of Luxfer glazing were found and added to create a monumentally large square window that illuminates the common areas. In contrast to the white spaces of the offices and other areas, the surfaces of the social facilities rooms are black, including the coating of the porotherm blocks.

In the Sungsoo district, known for its youthful and trendy atmosphere, the renovation of industrial buildings has given rise to a distinct architectural style characterized by rough concrete finishes and the replacement of traditional facades with expansive glass storefronts. While these transformations have invigorated Sungsoo economically and culturally, they mask a fundamental issue concerning old industrial buildings in Seoul: the lack of insulation. In our efforts to revamp an outdated and uninsulated factory for a label fabrication company, insulation took center stage as a critical feature of the transformation.
Much like the majority of industrial buildings in Sungsoo, our selected factory featured a two-story, L-shaped concrete structure with brick cladding. The primary factory building served a range of purposes, including label production, storage, and office space, while an annex located at the southern end, constructed with concrete blocks and metal beams, was designated for storage, bathrooms, and dining facilities.
To optimize the factory's logistical flow, we reconfigured the layout by consolidating all production and storage areas on the ground floor, streamlining the process from product arrival and processing to storage and distribution. Meanwhile, the office space, originally spread across two levels of the factory, has now been centralized on the second floor.
Our approach to insulation was tailored to the specific needs and thermal heat gain of each floor. Minimum insulation was applied on the ground level since the machinery produce enough radiant heat to warm up the space. In contrast, the second floor was equipped with thicker insulation to compensate for the absence of an internal heat source. This strategic design approach resulted in a distinctive vertical crenulation effect, creating a nuanced interplay of varying insulation thicknesses.
Preservation is often touted as a sustainable practice in architecture. However, as we face the challenge of reducing our carbon footprint, we must reimagine preservation not only as an appreciation of its old age but also as a way to equip old and cold buildings with the tools for their prolonged survival.

Shiver House is a kinetic “animal-like” structure that moves and adapts in response to surrounding natural forces. This cabin is an exploration into the idea that Architecture can be used as a means to create a closer emotional link between its inhabitants and the natural world it sits within. In addition, the project explores the idea that Architecture can be made to seem “alive” with the intention that this will engender a deeper and longer-lasting emotional relationship between people and the structures we inhabit.
Shiver House uses 1100 kinetic polycarbonate counter-weighted shingles which rotate up or down when the wind, rain, or snow hits them. The ever-changing nature of the external environment means that the structure is in a constant state of transformation. This changeability encourages the viewer to spend a prolonged period of time with the cabin and therefore in nature.
When observing this structure, the viewer is reminded of the invisible forces that surround them and is connected to not just the Shiver House but also the wider landscape. Watching this structure firmly grounds the viewer in the present moment and therefore helps to reduce any anxiety they may be feeling.
When inside the structure, the viewer can observe the environment through its façade as they watch the kinetic shingles modulate the internal light levels and views out to the surrounding landscape.
Shiver House V2 builds on the success of previous iterations of the project installed in Finland. This version is designed for longer-term use and will sit within the park of the louver-lens for a number of years.

Wufu Shanshui Dragon Family Banquet Restaurant is located in Longjing Village, Baofeng Town, Zhushan County, Hubei Province. As the head node of Wufu Longjing Smart Agricultural Innovation Park, the owner hopes to have a characteristic catering space, which can make it convenient for amusement, research and villagers to enjoy food here. The project is also close to the spiritual place of Longjing Village---- the ancient tree Longjing Square, and the owner hopes that the new buildings and places can be associated with it and form a certain fit between the visual and moving lines.
Longjing Village is famous for ancient trees, Longjing, Longquan, and is rich in tea. After the last round of rural revitalization, the community style has become like a unified face of white walls and gray tiles; Longjing Square has also been renovated and has become the only gathering place at the head of the village. The design task required a dining space that could accommodate up to 24 tables at a time, with varying sizes and individual Spaces that could accommodate temporary or reservation-style receptions, including party or wedding catering services.  The project site is narrow and long, close to Longjing Square, and there is no strict direction. The free growth of the village further weakens the sense of order in the layout of the new building, and the only reference comes from the ancient Longjing trees, serving as as some kind of invisible "orientation"
Scattered Boxes. According to functional requirements, the building is divided into 20 relatively independent units, including restaurants, bathrooms, and reception spaces. Each dining space varies in size and can accommodate from one to four tables. They are linearly arranged, from single rows to double rows, from independent to connected, and combined into a rich and effective laneway space. The north-facing units gradually change and eventually combine into a building interface with a centripetal nature (like buildings surround ancient tree). Each box is open towards the landscape, maximizing the inclusion of rural scenery while ensuring privacy. The reception units are located next to the entrance, providing new spatial relationships and effectively breaking the monotony of the building's geometric form, creating a rich visual experience at the entrance. The entire building does not have strict access management, further emphasizing its openness. Viewers can enter from multiple directions, as if arriving at a village. Due to the variation in terrain, the different sizes of boxes have varying internal heights, allowing users to experience different bodily sensations within similar volumes, enriching the overall experience.
Unified Roof. All the free-standing boxes are ultimately unified under a lightweight roof. The undulating roof follows the contour of the boxes and the terrain, providing shade and shelter. Open spaces outside the boxes offer places to stop, rest, or meet each other's gaze. The high space in the central area suggests the ritual sense of the entrance, and the outer corridor part of the west side can effectively tighten the line of sight and become the scale of the outer eaves close to the private house. The whole roof and the main box are strictly detached, and do not participate in the spatial maintenance structure of the unit box. Leave a gap between the small roof and the large roof to allow wind and sight to pass through. The selection of linoleum tile as a roofing material, in addition to considering the weight of the material itself, easy construction, relatively cheap and easy to shape is also an important factor.
Free structure. The entire building consists of two types of structures. The regular geometric functional "boxes" are primarily framed structures, making it easier for local workers to understand and ensure a certain level of accuracy. The large roof is supported by a steel structure and uses a more industrialized construction method. Considering the aspect ratio of the columns, an effective measure is taken to minimize the column cross-section by placing relatively small (9 cm diameter) steel columns on the beams and relatively large (10 cm diameter) steel columns on the ground. This allows the support system to have a relatively free visual expression. The main horizontal support is provided by steel beams measuring 180x90x4.5x4.5, which are overlapped based on the height of the roof. The semi-rigid and semi-hinged connection method is used to restrain the rotation of the beams on the supports and to transmit a certain bending moment and shear force. The exposed steel columns, beams, and purlins gradually integrate into the structural order with the support of the wooden floor.
Low-tech richness. Through the observation of rural self-built houses, similar free roof construction has become the growth characteristics of rural buildings in the past 20 years. This spontaneous, semi-industrial construction, reshaping the roof of rural architecture in the 21st century, is a direct result of the process of urbanization, and is the industrial embodiment of rural construction. Steel structure companies and light metal roofing manufacturers have gradually become the new force in the township construction system. With the help of this semi-industrial system, we can truly face the status quo of township construction, restrain the external performance of complex nodes, and reasonably deal with the internal and external relations of the building itself, which can find an appropriate balance in the tight budget.

Casa Pakaal is an old house dating from the beginning of the 20th century. It is located in one of the most important streets of the city of Mérida, Mexico, and in one of its oldest neighborhoods.
Upon entering the residence, in the first corridor with 5-meter-high ceilings and original wooden beams and joists, we find the living room in which a painting by Pedro Friedeberg is displayed. The floor design was made specifically for the house, using three different models to create a unique pattern. This part of the project was the only one that was completely restored, while a more contemporary intervention was carried out in the following spaces.
In which was the second corridor of the house, we can find the service area in the covered part and in the uncovered part a water feature with a floating stone pathway which is located on the site that once housed a French tiled roof, leaving as witnesses an old load-bearing wall and damp stains on the finishes.
Crossing the “stone bridge”, you reach a small garden that connects to the kitchen and the covered terrace. It is in these areas of the house where the decision is made to respect the old ruins but incorporate new materials and construction systems, "settling" on the old masonry walls, a frame of metal “I” beams and on this, the new roof with chukum finishing.
The interior walls of the kitchen preserve their original finishes, contrasting with the modern design of the custom made kitchen and the pasta tile floor.
The same aesthetic and structural criteria of the kitchen are applied in this area of the residence, leaving the old stone walls as they were found, complementing them with stone floors in neutral tones. This area works as an outdoor kitchen and dining room and has a wood-fired oven for pizzas and a grill, enjoying the view of the garden and the chukum pool where a tzalam wooden deck floats on the water and in which a beautiful play of light and shadow is projected from the leaves of a sour orange tree or Pak`áal in Mayan.
The private part of the house in the back area comes from the idea of respecting the existing vegetation, so the five rooms, including the master one, were distributed around the trees that were along the lot. The volumetry of this area is more sober and pure, creating extruded cubes with different textures.  The guest area is the only one with two levels in the entire residence and the textures used in the cubes are glass and chukum, where a staircase right in the middle acts as the guiding axis where the views run towards the back garden.
Integrating the past with the present, creating a balance between the natural and the built environment, and mixing traditional and modern materials, Casa Pakaal seeks to respect the history, nature, and its context, creating different environments and atmospheres for the enjoyment of each one of its spaces.

Entrusted with breathing new life into a colonial heritage building with over 50 years of history, we sought to infuse contemporary-modern ideas into the development without losing the nostalgia of the colonial-style influences or existing character that is unique to Pratamnak Hill, Pattaya. Our efforts lead to the amalgamation of both modern & colonial design expressions, in the architecture and landscape design, crafting a luxurious 5-star hotel experience overlooking the Gulf of Thailand.
Recognizing a need for a bright, airy lobby which the original building lacked, a 35m long pool, an integral core to the design, was introduced adjacent to the lobby, where the drop-off once stood. This opens the layout of the development, allowing arriving guests to be embraced by a sunlit lobby, gentle sea breeze, and an expanse of the organically designed pool, harking back to the nearby Koh Larn (a little island in the Gulf of Thailand) and its crystal blue waters.
Upon exploring the pool area, guests can utilize the Sunset Deck, Chill-Out Shallow Pool, and various facilities such as the cabanas and sun-bathing areas. Utmost care was also given to the integration of the existing mature trees as their towering canopies cast leafy shadows onto the pool where guests can be certain to delight in the many poolside leisure activities.
Traversing past the pool and cascades of blue and green, a verdant oasis awaits guests, accessible via a lower-level deck. Discover an expansive lawn, encompassed by a garden of lush, manicured plantings, offering a space where countless special occasions can take place. The garden also functions as a buffer from the surrounding streets, providing much-needed privacy for the pool area, a testament to our commitment to ensuring all areas are crafted with meticulous consideration and a flair for luxury hotel landscape design.

Located on a 4000m2 site in a semi-rural location on the slopes of the Steenberg Mountains, this building is nestled in a manner to suggest it is neither elevated nor buried, straddling a central location on the site. An open brief provided the freedom to explore a considered response to the landscape rather than focus solely on the constraints of accommodation. The site bears the scars of the presence of an earlier dwelling that was demolished due to structural failure. Further manipulation of the site was limited so that this chapter in the site’s history is not erased.
There are three parts that define the body of the new house, each distinct in its position and relationship to the other as well as to the topography of the site. The parts are positioned in a U-shaped ‘embrace’, relating to the use and requirements of privacy and separation while responding to prevailing winds, solar orientation, and outward views. The first structure, a modest guest bedroom and work area, appears to emerge from a slope as a result of an extended garden wall gently disappearing into the landscape. Another wall forms the sides of a pool and level plane, an un-programmed space for looking out.
Hovering above and askew to this structure is a heavy concrete canopy. The seemingly random relationship of this to the other structures was loosely inspired by the rocky crest of the mountains behind the house, which has a fragmented, geometric quality. It encloses and protects the second part, a large outdoor refuge from the sun and winds. From here one can see as far outward as False Bay, but also through the house towards Table Mountain to the north. This massive structure continues to the interior as the roof of a glazed living space that celebrates light and the landscape. A sudden step-down in the soffit at the threshold of living and kitchen spaces signals the connection to the third part. The spaces and light here are modulated; one’s eyes adjust to the subdued light and are drawn to the gleaming steel surfaces of the kitchen. To the left, a smaller aperture requires one to pause and look out en route to the main bedroom.
The lower level is reached by a modest staircase linking the upper level to the main entrance of the house in response to the direction of the gentle slope of the landscape. The spaces here are different in character, more introverted and enclosed. In using limited materials with recognizable qualities of the earth, the challenge was to achieve an alchemy where finish and structure are one and the same. This was possible by allowing each material to be fully present with its inherent color and texture. Consequently, the entire structure reads as a homogenous body against which the sun and seasons will render their effects strongly as the structure ages.
The vegetation has been restored and augmented using the indigenous flora of the area, a water-wise solution to this recently drought-stricken region of South Africa. As it continues to grow and surround the house, structure, and landscape become one, allowing the house to resonate with its landscape.
The meaning of this project is derived from a primordial understanding of shelter and dwelling. By placing both the occupant and the environment at the center of this dwelling, there is an emphasis on the use of simple and unadorned materials, almost as if these have been borrowed from the site to provide enclosure. This house benefits its owners by addressing the basic everyday requirements and processes of life in a measured way.

Chungkim Bakery is a bakery where sons reinterpret and sell their mothers' baking recipes in their own way. Kim(Chung's mother) studied in Japan to learn baking. And she came back to Korea and gave her friends cheesecake and cookies that she made herself, and she felt small happiness. Growing up watching and eating it, Chung (Kim's son) wanted to share these pleasant experiences with more people.
For a long time, bakeries have changed a lot with the times. The bakery in Kim's time was an occasional stop for special days and anniversaries, and the way the store operated also valued the display of luxurious goods and the atmosphere. On the other hand, today's baking has become popular as a staple and snack in everyday life, and it is changing to a transparent way of making it because it focuses on the value and nature of good ingredients and manufacturing methods.
We gathered the value of these periodical bakeries and we wanted to convey the value of the special care and manufacturing process of the bread to the customers through various visual fun. We wanted to apply various situations or ways that occur when we observe something in space. out-of-focus / visual contrast / looking toward movement was solved through three visual methods.
The space consists of a facade, pilotis, and interior. four architectural pillars were connected in a new form to create an open facade. the shape of the open elevation becomes more pronounced through the light inside in the evening and creates visual contrast. Some open pilotis spaces naturally lead to the inside, providing a place to buy and eat. And the free-moving guests catch the eyes of others. the innermost kitchen glass facade in the space shows the appearance of anything other than the manufacturing process so that it can focus on the manufacturing process of the bread.
Like this, the focus of various perspectives from the outside to the store was designed spatially, and the project was carried out with a great direction as a bakery where many people in the neighborhood can go and go without any burden.

The Annex is a studio and gallery space showcasing the art of Vermont stone sculptor Richard Erdman. Erdman’s upbringing in the picturesque mountains of Southern Vermont’s Marble region inspired his love for stone. The three-sided glass-walled studio embodies Erdman’s passion for organically presenting his work among nature. The space was designed collaboratively with the artist in the spirit of Donald Judd’s Chianti in Marfa, Texas, where Judd “considered the space around a piece intrinsic to its proper appreciation and felt the artist should be deeply involved in the design of the space showcasing their work.”
Built on a 20-acre working horse farm, Annex is positioned orthogonal to the surrounding buildings and bookends the farmyard in the northwest corner of the site. The building overlooks rolling horse pastures toward distant mountains which provide a bucolic backdrop to the sculptures. A crushed stone plinth around the building terminates into either a concrete infinity edge or a Corten rim and is captured by a black wooden guardrail that mimics the adjacent paddock fencing. The building is equally inspired by the agrarian landscape and the artist’s sculptural language.
The gallery is defined by a cantilevered, corrugated Corten steel shed akin to the metal-clad structures around the farm. This rectilinear form transitions to a curved office volume that reflects the sinuousness of the artist’s work. The program includes a flexible space for floor and podium display of large sculptures, shelves for maquette models, an outdoor sculpture garden, and a gallerist office. A moveable worktable is used for crafting clay models. A hydraulic loading door and jib crane aid in the installation and removal of sculptures.
The interior spaces are minimal and open. Structural steel members are exposed above the main studio. A monumental steel shelving display is integrated into the space and window composition. The interior wall and ceiling finishes are black to contrast with the marble sculptures. Custom metal pivot doors open into the white plaster gallerist space. A custom wood cabinet provides storage and a maquette display. A polished concrete floor adds to the durability, functionality, and overall minimalistic aesthetic. Ecological sensitivity is an important consideration in the project.
The building is all-electric, forgoing any use of fossil fuels on-site and using a ground-mounted PV array. Heating and cooling are provided by an electric heat pump system. Ventilation is provided by large doors and operable windows. Natural plaster and Swedish pine tar finishes contribute to healthy indoor air quality. Generous daylighting is supplemented by LED fixtures that are purposeful to the sculptures. The permeable stone surface surrounding the building helps capture runoff and mitigate erosion through the site.

Nestled in the beautiful hills of Verona near the town of Grezzana, the "Case Vecie" estate is a 70-hectare agricultural ecosystem, consisting of woodlands, high-altitude vineyards, and farm cottages. Since 2021, the entire complex has been the subject of a redevelopment program carried out by the owners, featuring the construction of a new agritourism complex. The project proposed by Studio MASAAI combines architectural and landscape interventions.
It is organised through a precise hospitality master plan spreading across the 70 hectares, designed for a new form of slow, sustainable, and experiential tourism, linked to the rediscovery of the territory. Through a progressive, 10-year growth plan, the project will provide for the recovery and reuse of the existing old ruins, the construction of the new agricultural center, and the strategic placement of glamping tents, camper pitches, and new thematic routes, all for the enjoyment of the hilly landscape.
The guest house. Conceived as an agritourism offering hospitality, dining, and wine tasting from the vineyards’s production, the “Locanda Case Vecie” is the first project of the regeneration plan. The project aims to create a harmonious synthesis between the original character of the preserved rural on the one hand, and the introduction of technologies and materials typical of modern wine production on the other hand. The facade and the courtyard have been deliberately left unchanged to reflect the passage of time. Through the introduction of a green pergola and an outdoor cycle workshop, this space has become a gathering spot for those walking by and bicycle tourists, who enjoy the new network of hiking trails originating from the property.
The existing internal layout has been completely overhauled to suit the new use of the space. Substantial structural work has been carried out, including the consolidation of the foundations, the creation of a new rock-cut cellar, the integration of all systems, and a thermal insulation layer throughout the internal perimeter. The ground floor features an open space tavern with a large kitchen area and a serving counter made of galvanized iron, workspaces, and a separate room dedicated to the wine tasting of the vineyard’s production.
On the first and second floors, two fully equipped apartments have been designed with kitchens, bathrooms and bedrooms capable of hosting up to 10 people. Furthermore, on the first floor, the room traditionally used for drying grapes, known as “fruttaia”, has been converted into a doubleheight room with the addition of a mezzanine and a dumbwaiter that connects directly to the kitchen, making this space ideal for hosting private events. The pre-existing materials found in the buildings, such as stone walls, tuff frames, and lime based plasters, are combined with typical wine cellar materials, such as galvanized iron and reinforced glass, laminated fir wood and industrial concrete, obtaining a new synthesis of agricultural and material language.

The construction of the first five out of the seven buildings that make up Project Gomila in Palma de Mallorca is complete. Designed by MVRDV and GRAS Reynés Arquitectos, Project Gomila is a collection of buildings, each with their own individual character derived from their colors, materials, and rooflines, that is transforming the area around Plaza Gomila in the neighborhood of El Terreno. Adding a total of 60 new dwellings of various sizes and types, as well as new commercial spaces, after one phase Project Gomila is already well on the way to reviving El Terreno as a vibrant, green, sustainable residential neighborhood.
Centered around Plaza Gomila, close to the city’s harbor, El Terreno is a historic neighborhood of Palma that in the ‘60s and ‘70s was known for its nightlife, with famous performances by musicians such as Jimi Hendrix, Ray Charles, and Tom Jones in its bohemian nightclubs. After a long period of neglect and decline, the Fluxà Family, owners of the Mallorca-based Camper shoe brand, purchased a series of neighboring plots around the Plaza, initiating a renewal plan that echoed Camper’s philosophy of combining heritage with innovation and creativity.
The five buildings completed in phase one include the Gomila Center, which forms the heart of the neighborhood. A renovation of a 1979 design by architect Pere Nicolau, on the ground floor this white building features a spacious patio, with a restaurant, office spaces, and apartments rising around this central feature in a series of stepping terraces and balconies. Next to the Gomila Centre are the red townhouses known as Las Casitas, which are topped by a landscape of rooftop terraces allowing neighboring residents to socialize together.
On the other side of the Gomila Center, located on a prominent street corner, is Las Fabri-Casas, a set of row houses with a saw-tooth roof completed with blue ceramic façades. Tucked behind this is a low-carbon apartment building constructed of compressed earth blocks, with a communal rooftop swimming pool that offers views towards the nearby Bellver Castle. Finally, across the street on the Plaza Gomila itself is the green building La Plaza, a transformation of an existing building that hosts a revival of the historic bar Bellver, offices, and a communal rooftop with views of the bay and the cathedral.
The Gomila buildings are energy neutral, using many of the same principles developed for the Passivhaus standard including high thermal efficiency and passive climate control measures such as shutters and cross ventilation to reduce energy needs. To utilize the many sun hours of Mallorca, the rooftops host solar panels while heat recovery systems further reduce the buildings’ energy consumption. Many of the materials have been sourced locally, reducing the carbon produced by the construction.
The following phases of the project will add two further buildings to the ensemble: the yellow Casa Virginia, and a small villa next to the Gomila Center, both renovations of existing neighborhood buildings.

Soochow University Gaoyou Experimental School is a nine-year compulsory school comprising an 8-track, 48-class elementary school and a 15-track, 45-class middle school. The campus is divided into three clear sections, from south to north: the public library connected by a reading gallery, the primary and secondary school buildings, and the open public teaching area. As the first interface of the campus to the city, we integrate the multi-functional cafeteria, theater, wind and rain playground, swimming pool and other cultural and sports facilities through the continuous large roof, and its complete architectural form forms a clear urban interface in this area. At the same time, we try to make the school communicate with the society in an open posture through the design of an ambiguous boundary space.
The external interface of the first floor of the North Zone is dominated by floor-to-ceiling safety blast-resistant glass (the actual enclosure), and the windows are only opened above the safety protection height. The foyer, cafeteria and dance classroom inside the glass become temporary waiting and buffer spaces for students during pick-up and drop-off, while the elevated area outside the glass becomes a waiting space for parents. The south side of the building utilizes the river to clearly separate the inside and outside of the school, with a sunny reading gallery and library adjacent to the river. The reading gallery, which is a spillover from the reading space of the library, becomes a resting gallery for students' after-school activities and a waiting gallery for students after school.
The water network system is a regional feature shared by Suzhou and Gaoyou. The central cultural water street running through the north and south naturally separates the elementary school from the junior high school without obstructing the line of sight. The various specialized classrooms and public teaching rooms on both sides of the water street allow primary and secondary school students to see and be seen by each other in a spatial atmosphere full of the architectural characteristics of the Jiangnan water town, eliminating the sense of strangeness brought about by physical isolation.
The corridor is not only a space for daily passage, but also a place for free passage and stopping to look around, and an important space for interaction and communication between students and students, and between students and teachers.
On the first floor of the library, there are several enclosed sunken spaces on the south side of the windows, which can be used as creative classrooms for small group teaching or places for students to read freely. The interior is connected to the upper and lower levels by wooden steps, and the bookshelves rise up along the side of the steps, providing students with a flexible and free reading space. In order to increase the interest, a "cave" like space is designed by the side of the big steps, which brings more spatial experience to the reading.

Site context and design prototype. EL 16.52 is a coffee shop located off the coast of Songdo, Busan, South Korea. EL stands for altitude above sea level, and 16.52 signifies the altitude level of the underground floor where the main building was built. The meaning lies in the context of the National Geopark to which this site belongs is architecturally implied, and the temporal nature of this stratum is intended to be contained in the meaning of altitude above sea level. The construction here was to interpret the difference in level between geopark, sea, and land in the sense of architectural archetype and ultimately maximize it commercially.
Parking circulation for level difference. The site adjoins two roads. One is the road towards the lower public parking lot with two basement floors, and the other is towards Songdo with two ground floors. As these two roads had a level difference of about 13.5m, there were considerable restrictions on the change in land form. In order to efficiently utilize such a limited building area, the parking area was divided into two parts. This is because instead of connecting the upper and lower parts with ramps, it is efficient to separate the upper and lower parking and put the machine room with adjusted distance between them.
Building area according to the land size of the land. It was necessary to consider the appropriate size of the cafe area, the number of parking lots more than the legal standard, the movement system linking two roads in contact with the land, and the possibility of future expansion. Considering the legal construction rate of the land that can be changed in shape, the maximum width of the building was about 15m. It was also the minimum dimension to create the business feasibility of the project, accounting for the legal minimum standard for the radius of rotation of the vehicle. The upper two floors are high with a dramatic view of the sea and consist of a coffee shop along with a rooftop. Visitors can access the upper coffee shop by entering the second floor above the ground on the main road connected to the outer city center
Configuration and repetition of arches. The basic form of building space is a semicircular arch. The circular structure is cut in half to form an arch frame, and then structurally coupled and repeated. The semicircular arch is the starting point of the construction logic and an important external and structural element that creates the overall architectural rhythm. This wave-like structure is woven into structural pillars of about 10m, the height of the third and fourth floors, and forms a three-dimensional structure. The repetition of horizontally unfolding waves meets the vertical waves geometrically, and the manifold combination method is repeated to complete the construction system. The terrace is formed at the point where the horizontal wave meets the vertical pillar to form a maximized sense of space. In considering the realm of construction, exposed concrete was used for the facade to create a voluminous continuation for the interior and exterior finishes of the building.

Ryuichi Sasaki Architecture, an award-winning, internationally acclaimed architectural design firm specializing in cultural experiences, is proud to unveil the Ideareve-Ikegami. Completed in 2021 in collaboration with Takayuki Yagi and Yagi Komuten, for the client Yasunori Kamata / K-M-T, the reinforced concrete structure was designed to accommodate a music hall, practice rooms, soundproofed residential rental units, and a penthouse.
At the foot of the Ikegami Honmonji Buddhist temple, renowned for its massive five-story pagoda erected in the early 17th century, the Ideareve-Ikegami is located in the south Tokyo town of Ikegami, a cultural hub comprised of smaller temples, cafes, stores, and residential zones. The mandate for Ryuichi Sasaki Architecture was to design a facility for the town where residents can gather, express their creativity, and study music in a variety of hybrid spaces. The firm embraced the mandate and responded in a stunning geometrical fashion.
“The Ikegami Honmonji temple is the most important spiritual site of the Nichiren Buddhist sect, with an illustrious history dating back to the 13th century,” explains Ryuichi Sasaki, CEO and Principal Architect. “The challenge for us was to design an experiential complex in its shadow that would embrace the spiritual and cultural essence of the community, while also respecting the types of strictly-enforced building codes that typically protect such heritage areas.”
A seamless blend with the environment - To the northwest of Ikegami’s largest cluster of residences, the complex sits on a trapezoidal site, just east of the town’s temples and cafes that cater largely to migrant waves of pilgrims en route to the temple. The two-story music hall and its 80-seat theatrical auditorium occupy a strategic place in the southwest corner of the structure, entered via a vestibule and foyer that combine to form a circulation zone that blurs the lines between the inspiring, undulating hills of the external landscape and the vibe of creativity that awaits inside. The foyer is embraced by three brass-colored, stainless steel diagonal walls, and the interior of the hall is encased in acoustic reflectors, with large walls that collectively form an abstract diagonal shape. Glass surfaces and multiple entranceways further embolden connections between the music hall and the surrounding landscape, with the latter embellished by gabion walls that delineate a garden of various species of plants.
Spatial reconfigurations - Towards the center of the building, the residential zone shares its entranceway with the music hall, and is accessed via a staircase marked by architectural elements symbolically paying tribute to the climb to the Ikegami Honmonji temple. At the top of the staircase, a series of sound-proofed rental homes line the corridor, each comprised of a kitchen, bathroom, soundproofed living room, and sleeping quarters. The residential volume also houses a penthouse unit comprising three-volume areas featuring sliding walls that enable maximum spatial configurations of its spaces. By reconfiguring the sliding walls, the living room and dining room areas can be enlarged to accommodate a variety of logistical situations. The sleeping quarters can also be reconfigured from a master bedroom into multiple bedrooms to accommodate other family members or houseguests.
Finally, above the music hall, a large terrace further fuses the seamless border between the building’s interior and exterior, incorporating inspirational views of the majestic landscape for the benefit Ideareve-Ikegami patrons.
“Views from the residential area, as well as the music hall circulation areas, were designed to inspire emotions conducive to musical creativity and melodic rhythms,” concludes Ryuichi Sasaki. “The project contributes to the blending of culture and hospitality that characterizes the town, and we are proud to provide this complex for the joyful use of residents of Ikegami.”

